

70E
®
2021
NFPA
Standard for  
Electrical Safety 
in the Workplace
®
®
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


IMPORTANT NOTICES AND DISCLAIMERS CONCERNING NFPA
®
 STANDARDS
NFPA
®
 codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides (“NFPA Standards”), of which the document
contained herein is one, are developed through a consensus standards development process approved by the
American National Standards Institute. This process brings together volunteers representing varied viewpoints
and interests to achieve consensus on fire and other safety issues. While the NFPA administers the process and
establishes rules to promote fairness in the development of consensus, it does not independently test, evaluate, or
verify the accuracy of any information or the soundness of any judgments contained in NFPA Standards.
The NFPA disclaims liability for any personal injury, property, or other damages of any nature whatsoever,
whether special, indirect, consequential or compensatory, directly or indirectly resulting from the publication, use
of, or reliance on NFPA Standards. The NFPA also makes no guaranty or warranty as to the accuracy or
completeness of any information published herein.
In issuing and making NFPA Standards available, the NFPA is not undertaking to render professional or other
services for or on behalf of any person or entity. Nor is the NFPA undertaking to perform any duty owed by any
person or entity to someone else. Anyone using this document should rely on his or her own independent
judgment or, as appropriate, seek the advice of a competent professional in determining the exercise of
reasonable care in any given circumstances.
The NFPA has no power, nor does it undertake, to police or enforce compliance with the contents of NFPA
Standards. Nor does the NFPA list, certify, test, or inspect products, designs, or installations for compliance with
this document. Any certification or other statement of compliance with the requirements of this document shall
not be attributable to the NFPA and is solely the responsibility of the certifier or maker of the statement.
REVISION SYMBOLS IDENTIFYING CHANGES FROM THE PREVIOUS EDITION
Text revisions are shaded. A Δ before a section number indicates that words within that section were
deleted and a Δ to the left of a table or figure number indicates a revision to an existing table or
figure. When a chapter was heavily revised, the entire chapter is marked throughout with the Δ
symbol. Where one or more sections were deleted, a • is placed between the remaining sections.
Chapters, annexes, sections, figures, and tables that are new are indicated with an N.
Note that these indicators are a guide. Rearrangement of sections may not be captured in the
markup, but users can view complete revision details in the First and Second Draft Reports located in
the archived revision information section of each code at www.nfpa.org/docinfo. Any subsequent
changes from the NFPA Technical Meeting, Tentative Interim Amendments, and Errata are also
located there.
REMINDER: UPDATING OF NFPA STANDARDS
Users of NFPA codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides (“NFPA Standards”) should be
aware that these documents may be superseded at any time by the issuance of a new edition, may be
amended with the issuance of Tentative Interim Amendments (TIAs), or be corrected by Errata. It is
intended that through regular revisions and amendments, participants in the NFPA standards
development process consider the then-current and available information on incidents, materials,
technologies, innovations, and methods as these develop over time and that NFPA Standards reflect
this consideration. Therefore, any previous edition of this document no longer represents the current
NFPA Standard on the subject matter addressed. NFPA encourages the use of the most current edition
of any NFPA Standard [as it may be amended by TIA(s) or Errata] to take advantage of current
experience and understanding. An official NFPA Standard at any point in time consists of the current
edition of the document, including any issued TIAs and Errata then in effect.
To determine whether an NFPA Standard has been amended through the issuance of TIAs or
corrected by Errata, visit the “Codes & Standards” section at www.nfpa.org.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ADDITIONAL IMPORTANT NOTICES AND DISCLAIMERS CONCERNING NFPA
®
 STANDARDS
Updating of NFPA Standards
Users of NFPA codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides (“NFPA Standards”) should be aware that these
documents may be superseded at any time by the issuance of a new edition, may be amended with the issuance of Tentative
Interim Amendments (TIAs), or be corrected by Errata. It is intended that through regular revisions and amendments,
participants in the NFPA standards development process consider the then-current and available information on incidents,
materials, technologies, innovations, and methods as these develop over time and that NFPA Standards reflect this
consideration. Therefore, any previous edition of this document no longer represents the current NFPA Standard on the
subject matter addressed. NFPA encourages the use of the most current edition of any NFPA Standard [as it may be amended
by TIA(s) or Errata] to take advantage of current experience and understanding. An official NFPA Standard at any point in
time consists of the current edition of the document, including any issued TIAs and Errata then in effect.
To determine whether an NFPA Standard has been amended through the issuance of TIAs or corrected by Errata, visit the
“Codes & Standards” section at www.nfpa.org.
Interpretations of NFPA Standards
A statement, written or oral, that is not processed in accordance with Section 6 of the Regulations Governing the
Development of NFPA Standards shall not be considered the official position of NFPA or any of its Committees and shall not
be considered to be, nor be relied upon as, a Formal Interpretation.
Patents
The NFPA does not take any position with respect to the validity of any patent rights referenced in, related to, or asserted in
connection with an NFPA Standard. The users of NFPA Standards bear the sole responsibility for determining the validity of
any such patent rights, as well as the risk of infringement of such rights, and the NFPA disclaims liability for the infringement
of any patent resulting from the use of or reliance on NFPA Standards.
NFPA adheres to the policy of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) regarding the inclusion of patents in
American National Standards (“the ANSI Patent Policy”), and hereby gives the following notice pursuant to that policy:
NOTICE: The user’s attention is called to the possibility that compliance with an NFPA Standard may require use of an
invention covered by patent rights. NFPA takes no position as to the validity of any such patent rights or as to whether such
patent rights constitute or include essential patent claims under the ANSI Patent Policy. If, in connection with the ANSI Patent
Policy, a patent holder has filed a statement of willingness to grant licenses under these rights on reasonable and
nondiscriminatory terms and conditions to applicants desiring to obtain such a license, copies of such filed statements can be
obtained, on request, from NFPA. For further information, contact the NFPA at the address listed below.
Law and Regulations
Users of NFPA Standards should consult applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. NFPA does not, by the
publication of its codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides, intend to urge action that is not in compliance with
applicable laws, and these documents may not be construed as doing so.
Copyrights
NFPA Standards are copyrighted. They are made available for a wide variety of both public and private uses. These include
both use, by reference, in laws and regulations, and use in private self-regulation, standardization, and the promotion of safe
practices and methods. By making these documents available for use and adoption by public authorities and private users, the
NFPA does not waive any rights in copyright to these documents.
Use of NFPA Standards for regulatory purposes should be accomplished through adoption by reference. The term
“adoption by reference” means the citing of title, edition, and publishing information only. Any deletions, additions, and
changes desired by the adopting authority should be noted separately in the adopting instrument. In order to assist NFPA in
following the uses made of its documents, adopting authorities are requested to notify the NFPA (Attention: Secretary,
Standards Council) in writing of such use. For technical assistance and questions concerning adoption of NFPA Standards,
contact NFPA at the address below.
For Further Information
All questions or other communications relating to NFPA Standards and all requests for information on NFPA procedures
governing its codes and standards development process, including information on the procedures for requesting Formal
Interpretations, for proposing Tentative Interim Amendments, and for proposing revisions to NFPA standards during regular
revision cycles, should be sent to NFPA headquarters, addressed to the attention of the Secretary, Standards Council, NFPA, 1
Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269-9101; email: stds_admin@nfpa.org.
For more information about NFPA, visit the NFPA website at www.nfpa.org. All NFPA codes and standards can be viewed at
no cost at www.nfpa.org/docinfo.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace, NFPA, and National Fire Protection Association are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection
Association, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169.
Copyright © 2020 National Fire Protection Association
®
. All Rights Reserved.
NFPA 70E
®
Standard for
Electrical Safety in the Workplace
®
2021 Edition
This edition of NFPA 70E
®
, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace
®
, was prepared by the
Technical Committee on Electrical Safety in the Workplace and released by the Correlating
Committee on National Electrical Code
®
. It was issued by the Standards Council on June 1, 2020,
with an effective date of June 21, 2020, and supersedes all previous editions.
This edition of NFPA 70E was approved as an American National Standard on June 21, 2020.
Foreword to NFPA 70E
The Standards Council of the National Fire Protection Association announced the formal
appointment of a new electrical standards development committee on January 7, 1976. The
Committee on Electrical Safety Requirements for Employee Workplaces reported to the association
through the Technical Correlating Committee on National Electrical Code
®
 (NEC
®
). The committee was
formed to assist OSHA in preparing an electrical safety standard that would serve OSHA's needs and
that could be expeditiously promulgated through the provisions of Section 6(b) of the Occupational
Safety and Health Act. OSHA found that in attempting to utilize the latest edition of the NEC, it was
confronted with the following problems:
(1) OSHA could only adopt or modify a standard through procedures that provide for public
notice, opportunity for public comment, and public hearings. The adoption of a new NEC edition by
these procedures would require extensive effort and application of resources by OSHA and others.
Going through the procedures might result in requirements substantially different from those of the
NEC, thereby creating a conflict between the two standards.
(2) The NEC is intended for use primarily by those who design, install, and inspect electrical
installations. Most of the NEC requirements are not electrical safety–related work practices, electrical
system maintenance, or directly related to employee safety. However, OSHA electrical regulations,
which address employers and employees in their workplaces, needed to consider and develop these
safety areas.
It became apparent that a need existed for a new standard tailored to fulfill OSHA's
responsibilities that would still be fully consistent with the NEC. This led to the concept of a new
document that would extract suitable portions from the NEC and from other documents applicable
to electrical safety. This concept and an offer of assistance was submitted in May 1975 to the Assistant
Secretary of Labor for OSHA, who responded as follows: "The concept, procedures, and scope of the
effort discussed with my staff for preparing the subject standard appear to have great merit, and an
apparent need exists for this proposed consensus document which OSHA could consider for
promulgation under the provisions of Section 6(b) of the Act. OSHA does have an interest in this
effort and believes the proposed standard would serve a useful purpose." With this positive
encouragement from OSHA, the NFPA Electrical Section unanimously supported a
recommendation that the NEC Correlating Committee examine the feasibility of developing a
document for evaluating electrical safety in the workplace. With recommendations from the
Electrical Section and Correlating Committee, the Standards Council authorized the establishment
of a committee to carry out this examination.
The committee would develop a standard for electrical installations that would be compatible
with the OSHA requirements for employee safety in locations covered by the NEC. The standard was
visualized as consisting of four major parts: Part I, Installation Safety Requirements; Part II, Safety-
Related Work Practices; Part III, Safety-Related Maintenance Requirements; and Part IV, Safety
Requirements for Special Equipment. It was not considered essential for all of the parts to be
completed before the standard was published and made available. Each part was recognized as being
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–2
ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE    2021 Edition
an important aspect of electrical safety in the workplace, but the parts were sufficiently independent of each other to permit
their separate publication. The first edition of NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety Requirements for Employee Workplaces, was
published in 1979 and included only Part I, Installation Safety Requirements.
The second edition published in 1981 included a new Part II, Safety-Related Work Practices. In 1983, the third edition
added a new Part III, Safety-Related Maintenance Requirements. In 1988, the fourth edition was published with only minor
revisions.
The 1995 edition included major revisions to Part I to conform to the 1993 edition of the NEC. The concepts of "limits of
approach" and establishment of an "arc" were introduced in Part II. In 2000, the sixth edition included an update of Part I to
the 1999 NEC, as well as a new Part IV, Safety Requirements for Special Equipment. Part II continued to focus on establishing
flash protection boundaries and the use of personal protective equipment (PPE). Also, charts were added to Part II to assist in
applying appropriate protective clothing and personal protective equipment for common tasks.
The 2004 edition presented several significant changes. The major changes emphasized safe work practices. Clarity and
usability of the document were also enhanced. The title was changed to Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace. The
document was reformatted to comply with the National Electrical Code Style Manual. The existing parts were renamed as chapters
and were reorganized with the safety-related work practices relocated to the front of the document to highlight the emphasis,
followed by safety-related maintenance requirements, safety requirements for special equipment, and safety-related installation
requirements. The chapter on safety-related work practices also was reorganized to emphasize that working on live parts is the
last alternative work practice. An energized electrical work permit and related requirements were incorporated into the
document.
This standard is compatible with the NEC but is not intended to be used, nor can it be used, in lieu of the NEC. Chapter 4,
Specific Purpose Equipment and Installations, was intended to serve a very specific need of OSHA. It was not intended to be
applied as a design, installation, modification, or construction standard for an electrical installation or system. Its content was
intentionally limited in comparison to the NEC in order to apply to an electrical installation or a system as part of an
employee's workplace. Chapter 4 was updated to correlate with the 2002 edition of the NEC, but requirements not directly
associated with employee safety were not included. Omission of NEC requirements did not affect the NEC, nor were omitted
requirements considered as unimportant. They are essential to the NEC and its intended application — that is, its use by those
who design, install, and inspect electrical installations. NFPA 70E, on the other hand, is intended for use by employers,
employees, and OSHA.
Requirements were upgraded throughout the 2009 edition. Chapter 4 was deleted because it was a duplicate of NEC
installation requirements. Article 350 was added for R&D facilities. Other changes included significant revisions to Annex D,
Annex F, and Annex J and the addition of Annex M, Annex N, and Annex O.
The 2012 edition marked another waypoint as this standard continued to evolve to meet the electrical safety needs of
employers and employees. New research, new technology, and technical input from users provided the foundation for new and
revised requirements that addressed the electrical hazards encountered by employees in current workplaces. Expanded or
clarified requirements, inclusion of technical material not previously covered, and removal of requirements related to the safe
installation of electrical equipment rather than being safe electrical work practices were some of the major actions undertaken
during the revision cycle. In addition, requirements covering the separate but directly related concepts of hazard identification
and risk assessment were revised to clarify the concepts. A significant revision to Annex F provided extensive coverage of this
topic to assist users with implementing effective hazard identification and risk assessment procedures. Annex P on aligning
NFPA 70E implementation with occupational health and safety management standards was added.
The majority of changes occurred in Chapter 1. Article 105, Application of Safety-Related Work Practices, and a
requirement for hearing protection when working within an arc flash boundary were added, as were work practice
requirements on the use of GFCIs to protect employees. Clarification was made that Article 130 applies whether incident
energy analysis or the hazard/risk table was used to determine use and level of PPE. Short-circuit current, fault clearing time,
and arc flash boundary information were included in the hazard/risk category tables. Another major revision included
changing "flame-resistant (FR)" to "arc-rated (AR)" in regard to PPE.
The 2015 edition incorporated a major shift in how stakeholders evaluate electrical risk. In support of this, new definitions
for hazard, hazardous, risk, and risk assessment were added to Article 100. Throughout the document, changes were made to
provide clarity to users, such as changing hazard analysis to risk assessment. These global changes ensured consistent use of these
terms throughout the document and provided consistency between NFPA 70E and other standards that address hazards and
risk. Other major revisions included the following:
(1) The definition of a qualified person was revised to correlate with the OSHA definition.
(2) Safety-related maintenance requirements and other administrative controls were added to the scope statement to clarify
that training and auditing are equally important safety-related work practices.
(3) An electrical safety program must consider condition of maintenance.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ORIGIN & DEVELOPMENT
2021 Edition    ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–3
(4) Clarification was provided that the equipment owner or the owner’s designated representative is responsible for
maintenance of the electrical equipment and documentation.
(5) New maintenance requirements were added for test instruments and associated test leads utilized in the verification of
the absence or presence of voltages.
(6) New requirements clarified where normal operation of electric equipment is permitted.
(7) Clarification was made that either the incident energy analysis method or arc flash PPE category method can be used on
a piece of equipment for the selection of PPE, but not both. The revision clarified that the results of an incident energy
analysis is not permitted to be used to specify an arc flash PPE category.
(8) A new task-based table combined the previously separate ac and dc tables used to determine when arc flash PPE is
required and made them consistent, improving usability.
(9) New equipment-based tables were added for determining the arc flash PPE category for ac systems and for dc systems.
(10) Hazard/risk category 0 was removed because the new PPE table only specifies PPE for work within the arc flash
boundary. Hazard/risk category was also changed to PPE category.
(11) Prohibited approach boundary was deleted because additional protective equipment was not required when crossing
this boundary.
(12) The criterion to use insulated tools or handling equipment was changed from the limited approach boundary to
restricted approach boundary.
(13) All references to bare-hand work were removed. This work is considered to be a "utility type" line work technique more
appropriately addressed in other standards.
(14) Field-marked equipment labeling requirements were revised to require an updated label when the arc flash hazard risk
assessment identifies a change that renders the label inaccurate.
(15) A risk assessment is required prior to any work on a battery system to identify the chemical, electrical shock, and arc
flash hazards and assess the risks associated with the type of tasks to be performed.
The 2018 edition continued to evolve to address risk assessment and introduce human factors, such as human error, as part
of that assessment. Annex Q, Human Performance and Workplace Electrical Safety, was included to provide guidance in this
area. This edition emphasized the need to use the hierarchy of risk controls by moving it from an informational note into the
text of the standard. NFPA 70E explicitly stated that the first priority must be the elimination of the hazard.
The previous arc flash hazard identification table [Table 130.7(C)(15)(A)(a)] was modified to determine the likelihood
that an arc flash could occur and renumbered as Table 130.5(C). This modified table could be used with either method of arc
flash risk assessment.
The most notable change for the 2018 edition was that tables and text that specified PPE standards were moved to
informational tables or notes. In previous editions employers were, and still are, required to verify that appropriate PPE is
given to employees. Section 130.7(C)(14)(b) was added to provide guidance on conformity assessment of PPE. These changes
did not alter the employer’s responsibility for determining the validity of the PPE manufacturer’s claims.
Definitions for fault current and available fault current were added, and other terms used throughout the standard for this
current were changed for consistency. Article 120 was rearranged to present the requirements for establishing an electrically
safe work condition in a logical order of application of the program. Article 320 introduced voltage thresholds of 50 Vac and
100 Vdc specifically for batteries and battery rooms to address the unique situations in these locations. Article 330 addressing
lasers was extensively revised to address safety-related maintenance issues rather than issues associated with laser use. Article
350 introduced an Electrical Safety Authority as a possible authority having jurisdiction for laboratories.
For the 2021 edition, Article 110 was revised to incorporate the general requirements for electrical safety-related work
programs, practices, and procedures from other articles. The reference to arc-resistant switchgear has been changed to arc-
resistant equipment in Tables 130.5(C) and 130.7(C)(15)(a) to address the use of other types of arc-resistant equipment.
Article 360, Safety-Related Requirements for Capacitors, and Annex R, Working with Capacitors, were added to address specific
electrical safety requirements unique to capacitors. Annex D, Incident Energy and Arc Flash Boundary Calculation Methods,
was revised to reference IEEE-1584-2018 as a method of calculation.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–4
ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE    2021 Edition
Contents
90
Introduction .........................................................
70E– 8
Chapter 1 Safety-Related Work Practices
100
Definitions ............................................................
70E– 10
105
Application of Safety-Related Work Practices
and Procedures ....................................................70E– 15
110
General Requirements for Electrical Safety-
Related Work Practices ........................................70E– 15
120
Establishing an Electrically Safe Work
Condition .............................................................70E– 20
130
Work Involving Electrical Hazards ......................
70E– 24
Chapter 2 Safety-Related Maintenance Requirements
200
Introduction .........................................................
70E– 42
205
General Maintenance Requirements ..................
70E– 42
210
Substations, Switchgear Assemblies,
Switchboards, Panelboards, Motor Control
Centers, and Disconnect Switches ......................70E– 43
215
Premises Wiring ...................................................
70E– 43
220
Controller Equipment .........................................
70E– 43
225
Fuses and Circuit Breakers ..................................
70E– 43
230
Rotating Equipment ............................................
70E– 43
235
Hazardous (Classified) Locations .......................
70E– 44
240
Batteries and Battery Rooms ...............................
70E– 44
245
Portable Electric Tools and Equipment .............
70E– 44
250
Personal Safety and Protective Equipment ........
70E– 44
Chapter 3 Safety Requirements for Special Equipment
300
Introduction .........................................................
70E– 46
310
Safety-Related Work Practices for Electrolytic
Cells ......................................................................70E– 46
320
Safety Requirements Related to Batteries and
Battery Rooms ......................................................70E– 48
330
Safety-Related Work Practices: Lasers .................
70E– 50
340
Safety-Related Work Practices: Power Electronic
Equipment ............................................................70E– 51
350
Safety-Related Work Requirements: Research
and Development Laboratories ..........................70E– 52
360
Safety-Related Requirements for Capacitors ......
70E– 53
Informative Annex A: Informative Publications ...........
70E– 56
Informative Annex B: Reserved .....................................
70E– 59
Informative Annex C: Limits of Approach ...................
70E– 60
Informative Annex D: Incident Energy and Arc Flash
Boundary Calculation Methods .....................................70E– 62
Informative Annex E: Electrical Safety Program ..........
70E– 68
Informative Annex F: Risk Assessment and Risk
Control ............................................................................70E– 69
Informative Annex G: Sample Lockout/Tagout
Program ..........................................................................70E– 72
Informative Annex H:  Guidance on Selection of
Protective Clothing and Other Personal Protective
Equipment (PPE) ...........................................................70E– 75
Informative Annex I: Job Briefing and Job Safety
Planning Checklist .........................................................70E– 78
Informative Annex J: Energized Electrical Work
Permit ..............................................................................70E– 81
Informative Annex K: General Categories of
Electrical Hazards ...........................................................70E– 83
Informative Annex L: Typical Application of
Safeguards in the Cell Line Working Zone ..................70E– 84
Informative Annex M: Layering of Protective
Clothing and Total System Arc Rating ..........................70E– 85
Informative Annex N: Example Industrial Procedures
and Policies for Working Near Overhead Electrical
Lines and Equipment .....................................................70E– 86
Informative Annex O: Safety-Related Design
Requirements .................................................................70E– 89
Informative Annex P: Aligning Implementation of
This Standard with Occupational Health and Safety
Management Standards .................................................70E– 91
Informative Annex Q: Human Performance and
Workplace Electrical Safety ............................................70E– 92
Informative Annex R: Working with Capacitors ...........
70E– 97
Index ...............................................................................70E– 107
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


COMMITTEE PERSONNEL
2021 Edition    ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–5
Correlating Committee on National Electrical Code
®
Lawrence S. Ayer, Chair
Biz Com Electric, Inc., OH [IM]
Rep. Independent Electrical Contractors, Inc.
James E. Brunssen, Telcordia Technologies (Ericsson), NJ [UT]
Rep. Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
Kevin L. Dressman, US Department of Energy, MD [U]
Palmer L. Hickman, Electrical Training Alliance, MD [L]
Rep. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
Richard A. Holub, The DuPont Company, Inc., DE [U]
Rep. American Chemistry Council
Michael J. Johnston, National Electrical Contractors Association,
MD [IM]
John R. Kovacik, UL LLC, IL [RT]
Alan Manche, Schneider Electric, KY [M]
Roger D. McDaniel, Georgia Power Company, GA [UT]
Rep. Electric Light & Power Group/EEI
George A. Straniero, AFC Cable Systems, Inc., NJ [M]
Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association
David A. Williams, Delta Charter Township, MI [E]
Rep. International Association of Electrical Inspectors
Alternates
Roland E. Deike, Jr., CenterPoint Energy, Inc., TX [UT]
(Alt. to Roger D. McDaniel)
James T. Dollard, Jr., IBEW Local Union 98, PA [L]
(Alt. to Palmer L. Hickman)
Ernest J. Gallo, Telcordia Technologies (Ericsson), NJ [UT]
(Alt. to James E. Brunssen)
David L. Hittinger, Independent Electrical Contractors of Greater
Cincinnati, OH [IM]
(Alt. to Lawrence S. Ayer)
David H. Kendall, ABB Inc., TN [M]
(Alt. to George A. Straniero)
Robert A. McCullough, Tuckerton, NJ [E]
(Alt. to David A. Williams)
Robert D. Osborne, UL LLC, NC [RT]
(Alt. to John R. Kovacik)
Christine T. Porter, Intertek Testing Services, WA [RT]
(Voting Alt.)
Timothy James Schultheis, T.S.B Inc., Schultheis Electric, PA [IM]
(Alt. to Michael J. Johnston)
Nonvoting
Timothy J. Pope, Canadian Standards Association, Canada [SE]
Rep. CSA/Canadian Electrical Code Committee
William R. Drake, Fairfield, CA [M]
(Member Emeritus)
D. Harold Ware, Libra Electric Company, OK [IM]
(Member Emeritus)
Jeffrey S. Sargent, NFPA Staff Liaison
This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the
back of the document.
NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.
Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on
minimizing the risk of electricity as a source of electric shock and as a potential ignition
source of fires and explosions. It shall also be responsible for text to minimize the
propagation of fire and explosions due to electrical installations.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–6
ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE    2021 Edition
Technical Committee on Electrical Safety in the Workplace
Louis A. Barrios, Chair
Shell Global Solutions, TX [U]
Rep. American Petroleum Institute
Paul D. Barnhart, UL LLC, NC [RT]
William Bruce Bowman, Fox Systems, Inc., GA [IM]
Rep. Independent Electrical Contractors, Inc.
Steven C. Chybowski, Rockwell Automation Inc., WI [M]
Daryld Ray Crow, DRC Consulting, Ltd., UT [M]
Rep. The Aluminum Association, Inc.
Thomas B. Dyson, Ameren Services, MO [U]
Rep. Edison Electric Institute
Ernest J. Gallo, Telcordia Technologies (Ericsson), NJ [U]
Rep. Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
Bobby J. Gray, Hoydar/Buck, Inc., WA [E]
William R. Harris, General Motors Company, MI [U]
Palmer L. Hickman, Electrical Training Alliance, MD [L]
Rep. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
Mark R. Hilbert, MR Hilbert Electrical Inspections & Training, NH
[E]
Rep. International Association of Electrical Inspectors
Kevin J. Lippert, Eaton Corporation, PA [M]
Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association
Terrance L. McKinch, Mortenson Construction, MI [U]
Mark McNellis, Sandia National Laboratories, NM [U]
Charles R. Miller, Lighthouse Educational Services, TN [SE]
Daleep C. Mohla, DCM Electrical Consulting Services, Inc., TX
[SE]
Rep. Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers, Inc.
James K. Niemira, S&C Electric Company, IL [M]
Thomas D. Norwood, AVO Training Institute, TX [SE]
David A. Pace, Olin Corporation, AL [U]
Rep. American Chemistry Council
James G. Stallcup, Grayboy, Inc., TX [SE]
Charlie R. Thurmond III, ThyssenKrupp Elevator, TN [IM]
Rep. National Elevator Industry Inc.
John M. Tobias, US Department of the Army, MD [U]
Rodney J. West, Schneider Electric, OH [M]
James R. White, Shermco Industries, Inc., TX [IM]
Rep. InterNational Electrical Testing Association
Jason Wolf, The ESCO Group, IA [IM]
Rep. National Electrical Contractors Association
Alternates
Bill Alderton, Schneider Electric, OH [M]
(Alt. to Rodney J. West)
Lawrence S. Ayer, Biz Com Electric, Inc., OH [IM]
(Alt. to William Bruce Bowman)
James E. Brunssen, Telcordia Technologies (Ericsson), NJ [U]
(Alt. to Ernest J. Gallo)
Jeffrey Paul Conkwright, Mortenson Energy Services, MN [U]
(Alt. to Terrance L. McKinch)
Paul Dobrowsky, Innovative Technology Services, NY [SE]
(Alt. to Daleep C. Mohla)
James T. Dollard, Jr., IBEW Local Union 98, PA [L]
(Alt. to Palmer L. Hickman)
Heath Garrison, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, CO [U]
(Alt. to Mark McNellis)
Eric Glaude, Chevron, TX [U]
(Alt. to Louis A. Barrios)
Donald Charles Hacke, Kone Inc., IL [IM]
(Alt. to Charlie R. Thurmond III)
Martin Nagel, General Motors Company, MI [U]
(Alt. to William R. Harris)
Larry D. Perkins, US Department of Energy, TN [E]
(Alt. to Bobby J. Gray)
Jim Phillips, Brainfiller, Inc., AZ [SE]
(Alt. to Charles R. Miller)
Roy K. Sparks, III, Eli Lilly and Company, IN [U]
(Alt. to David A. Pace)
Gregory J. Steinman, Thomas & Betts Corporation, TN [M]
(Alt. to Kevin J. Lippert)
Samuel B. Stonerock, Southern California Edison Company, CA
[SE]
(Voting Alt.)
Wesley L. Wheeler, National Electrical Contractors Association, MD
[IM]
(Alt. to Jason Wolf)
Ron Widup, Shermco Industries, TX [IM]
(Alt. to James R. White)
Nonvoting
Carolyn Black, Mount Vernon Mills, Canada [SE]
Rep. Canadian Standards Association
Mike Doherty, Blue Arc Electrical Safety Technologies, Inc., Canada
[SE]
Rep. Canadian Standards Association
David M. Wallis, Consultant, MD [SE]
(Member Emeritus)
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


COMMITTEE PERSONNEL
2021 Edition    ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–7
Christopher Coache, NFPA Staff Liaison
This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the
back of the document.
NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.
Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents for work
practices that are necessary to provide a practical safe workplace relative to the hazards
associated with electrical energy. This Committee shall have primary jurisdiction, but shall
report to Correlating Committee of the National Electrical Code.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 90 — INTRODUCTION
90.1
70E–8
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
NFPA 70E
Electrical Safety in the Workplace
2021 Edition
IMPORTANT  NOTE:  This  NFPA  document  is  made  available  for
use  subject  to  important  notices  and  legal  disclaimers.  These  notices
and disclaimers appear in all publications containing this document
and  may  be  found  under  the  heading  “Important  Notices  and
Disclaimers Concerning NFPA Documents.” They can also be viewed
at www.nfpa.org/disclaimers or obtained on request from NFPA.
UPDATES, ALERTS, AND FUTURE EDITIONS: New editions of
NFPA  codes,  standards,  recommended  practices,  and  guides  (i.e.,
NFPA  Standards)  are  released  on  scheduled  revision  cycles.  This
edition  may  be  superseded  by  a  later  one,  or  it  may  be  amended
outside  of  its  scheduled  revision  cycle  through  the  issuance  of  Tenta‐
tive  Interim  Amendments  (TIAs).  An  official  NFPA  Standard  at  any
point in time consists of the current edition of the document, together
with all TIAs and Errata in effect. To verify that this document is the
current  edition  or  to  determine  if  it  has  been  amended  by  TIAs  or
Errata, please consult the National Fire Codes
®
 Subscription Service
or the “List of NFPA Codes & Standards” at www.nfpa.org/docinfo.
In addition to TIAs and Errata, the document information pages also
include the option to sign up for alerts for individual documents and
to be involved in the development of the next edition.
A reference in brackets [ ] following a section or paragraph
indicates  material  that  has  been  extracted  from  another  NFPA
document.  Extracted  text  may  be  edited  for  consistency  and
style  and  may  include  the  revision  of  internal  paragraph  refer‐
ences  and  other  references  as  appropriate.  Requests  for  inter‐
pretations  or  revisions  of  extracted  text  shall  be  sent  to  the
technical committee responsible for the source document.
Information  on  referenced  and  extracted  publications  can
be found in Informative Annex A.
ARTICLE 90
Introduction
90.1  Purpose.  The  purpose  of  this  standard  is  to  provide  a
practical   safe   working   area   for   employees   relative   to   the
hazards arising from the use of electricity.
90.2  Scope.
(A)  Covered.  This  standard  addresses  electrical  safety-related
work  practices,  safety-related  maintenance  requirements,  and
other administrative controls for employee workplaces that are
necessary  for  the  practical  safeguarding  of  employees  relative
to the hazards associated with electrical energy during activities
such as the installation, removal, inspection, operation, mainte‐
nance,  and  demolition  of  electric  conductors,  electric  equip‐
ment,    signaling    and    communications    conductors    and
equipment, and raceways. This standard also includes safe work
practices  for  employees  performing  other  work  activities  that
can expose them to electrical hazards as well as safe work prac‐
tices for the following:
(1)Installation of conductors and equipment that connect to
the supply of electricity
(2)Installations  used  by  the  electric  utility,  such  as  office
buildings,   warehouses,   garages,   machine   shops,   and
recreational  buildings  that  are  not  an  integral  part  of  a
generating plant, substation, or control center
Informational  Note:  This  standard  addresses  safety  of  workers
whose  job  responsibilities  involve  interaction  with  energized
electrical  equipment  and  systems  with  potential  exposure  to
electrical  hazards.  Concepts  in  this  standard  are  often  adapted
to  other  workers  whose  exposure  to  electrical  hazards  is  unin‐
tentional  or  not  recognized  as  part  of  their  job  responsibilities.
The  highest  risk  for  injury  from  electrical  hazards  for  other
workers involve unintentional contact with overhead power lines
and electric shock from machines, tools, and appliances.
(B) Not  Covered.  This  standard  does  not  cover  safety-related
work practices for the following:
(1)Installations in ships, watercraft other than floating build‐
ings, railway rolling stock, aircraft, or automotive vehicles
other than mobile homes and recreational vehicles
(2)Installations  of  railways  for  generation,  transformation,
transmission, or distribution of power used exclusively for
operation of rolling stock or installations used exclusively
for signaling and communications purposes
(3)Installations  of  communications  equipment  under  the
exclusive   control   of   communications   utilities   located
outdoors  or  in  building  spaces  used  exclusively  for  such
installations
(4)Installations  under  the  exclusive  control  of  an  electric
utility where such installations:
a.Consist of service drops or service laterals, and associ‐
ated metering, or
b.Are located in legally established easements or rights-
of-way  designated  by  or  recognized  by  public  service
commissions,  utility  commissions,  or  other  regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction for such installations, or
c.Are on property owned or leased by the electric utility
for the purpose of communications, metering, gener‐
ation,  control,  transformation,  transmission,  or  distri‐
bution of electric energy, or
d.Are  located  by  other  written  agreements  either  desig‐
nated by or recognized by public service commissions,
utility   commissions,   or   other   regulatory   agencies
having  jurisdiction  for  such  installations.  These  writ‐
ten agreements shall be limited to installations for the
purpose  of  communications,  metering,  generation,
control,  transformation,  transmission,  or  distribution
of electric energy where legally established easements
or  rights-of-way  cannot  be  obtained.  These  installa‐
tions  shall  be  limited  to  federal  lands,  Native  Ameri‐
can  reservations  through  the  U.S.  Department  of  the
Interior Bureau of Indian Affairs, military bases, lands
controlled  by  port  authorities  and  state  agencies  and
departments, and lands owned by railroads.
90.3 Standard  Arrangement.  This  standard  is  divided  into  the
introduction  and  three  chapters,  as  shown  in  Figure  90.3.
Chapter  1  applies  generally,  Chapter  2  addresses  safety-related
maintenance  requirements,  and  Chapter  3  supplements  or
modifies  Chapter  1  with  safety  requirements  for  special  equip‐
ment.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 90 — INTRODUCTION
90.5
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–9
Informative annexes are not part of the requirements of this
standard but are included for informational purposes only.
90.4 Mandatory   Rules,   Permissive   Rules,   and   Explanatory
Material.
(A) Mandatory  Rules.  Mandatory  rules  of  this  standard  are
those  that  identify  actions  that  are  specifically  required  or
prohibited  and  are  characterized  by  the  use  of  the  terms  shall
or shall not.
(B) Permissive  Rules.  Permissive  rules  of  this  standard  are
those  that  identify  actions  that  are  allowed  but  not  required,
are  normally  used  to  describe  options  or  alternative  methods,
and  are  characterized  by  the  use  of  the  terms  shall  be  permitted
or shall not be required.
(C) Explanatory Material.  Explanatory material, such as refer‐
ences  to  other  standards,  references  to  related  sections  of  this
standard,  or  information  related  to  a  rule  in  this  standard,  is
Informative Annexes
Chapter 3
Safety Requirements
for Special Equipment
Chapter 2
Safety-Related
Maintenance Requirements
Applies generally to electrical 
safety in the workplace
Modifies the general 
requirements of Chapter 1
Addresses safety-related 
maintenance requirements
Chapter 1
Safety-Related
Work Practices
Introduction
Introductory and
explanatory material
Informational material only;
not mandatory
FIGURE  90.3     Standard Arrangement.
included  in  this  standard  in  the  form  of  informational  notes.
Such  notes  are  informational  only  and  are  not  enforceable  as
requirements of this standard.
Brackets  containing  section  references  to  another  NFPA
document  are  for  informational  purposes  only  and  are  provi‐
ded  as  a  guide  to  indicate  the  source  of  the  extracted  text.
These  bracketed  references  immediately  follow  the  extracted
text.
Informational  Note:  The  format  and  language  used  in  this
standard  follow  guidelines  established  by  NFPA  and  published
in the National Electrical Code Style Manual. Copies of this manual
can be obtained from NFPA.
(D) Informative Annexes.  Nonmandatory information relative
to  the  use  of  this  standard  is  provided  in  informative  annexes.
Informative  annexes  are  not  part  of  the  requirements  of  this
standard, but are included for information purposes only.
90.5 Formal  Interpretations.  To  promote  uniformity  of  inter‐
pretation  and  application  of  the  provisions  of  this  standard,
formal  interpretation  procedures  have  been  established  and
are  found  in  the  
Regulations  Governing  the  Development  of
NFPA Standards.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 100 — DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 1
70E–10
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Chapter 1   Safety-Related Work Practices
ARTICLE 100
Definitions
Scope.  This  article  contains  only  those  definitions  essential  to
the  proper  application  of  this  standard.  It  is  not  intended  to
include   commonly   defined   general   terms   or   commonly
defined  technical  terms  from  related  codes  and  standards.  In
general, only those terms that are used in two or more articles
are  defined  in  Article  100.  Other  definitions  are  included  in
the  article  in  which  they  are  used  but  may  be  referenced  in
Article  100.  The  definitions  in  this  article  shall  apply  wherever
the terms are used throughout this standard.
Accessible   (as   applied   to   equipment).      Admitting   close
approach;  not  guarded  by  locked  doors,  elevation,  or  other
effective means. [70:100]
•
Approved.  Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
Arc  Flash  Hazard.    A  source  of  possible  injury  or  damage  to
health  associated  with  the  release  of  energy  caused  by  an  elec‐
tric arc.
Informational  Note  No.  1:  The  likelihood  of  occurrence  of  an
arc  flash  incident  increases  when  energized  electrical  conduc‐
tors or circuit parts are exposed or when they are within equip‐
ment  in  a  guarded  or  enclosed  condition,  provided  a  person  is
interacting  with  the  equipment  in  such  a  manner  that  could
cause an electric arc. An arc flash incident is not likely to occur
under  normal  operating  conditions  when  enclosed  energized
equipment  has  been  properly  installed  and  maintained.
  See
110.4(D) for further information.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  See  Table  130.5(C)  for  examples  of
tasks that increase the likelihood of an arc flash incident occur‐
ring.
Arc  Flash  Suit.    A  complete  arc-rated  clothing  and  equipment
system  that  covers  the  entire  body,  except  for  the  hands  and
feet.
Informational Note: An arc flash suit may include pants or over‐
alls, a jacket or a coverall, and a beekeeper-type hood fitted with
a face shield.
ΔArc  Rating.    The  value  attributed  to  materials  that  describes
their  performance  to  exposure  to  an  electrical  arc  discharge.
The arc rating is expressed in cal/cm
2
 and is derived from the
determined   value   of   the   arc   thermal   performance   value
(ATPV)  or  energy  of  breakopen  threshold  (E
BT
)  (should  a
material system exhibit a breakopen response below the ATPV
value). Arc rating is reported as either ATPV or E
BT
, whichever
is the lower value.
Informational Note No. 1: Arc-rated clothing or equipment indi‐
cates  that  it  has  been  tested  for  exposure  to  an  electric  arc.
Flame-resistant  clothing  without  an  arc  rating  has  not  been
tested  for  exposure  to  an  electric  arc.  All  arc-rated  clothing  is
also flame resistant.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  ATPV  is  defined  in  ASTM  F1959/
F1959M,  Standard  Test  Method  for  Determining  the  Arc  Rating  of
Materials  for  Clothing,  as  the  incident  energy  (cal/cm
2
)  on  a
material  or  a  multilayer  system  of  materials  that  results  in  a
50  percent  probability  that  
sufficient  heat  transfer  through  the
tested  specimen  is  predicted  to  cause  the  onset  of  a  second
degree skin burn injury based on the Stoll curve.
Informational  Note  No.  3:  E
BT
  is  defined  in  ASTM  F1959/
F1959M,  Standard  Test  Method  for  Determining  the  Arc  Rating  of
Materials  for  Clothing,  as  the  incident  energy  (cal/cm
2
)  on  a
material or a material system that results in a 50 percent proba‐
bility of breakopen. Breakopen is a material response evidenced
by the formation of one or more holes of a defined size [an area
of  1.6  cm
2
  (0.5  in.
2
)  or  an  opening  of  2.5  cm  (1.0  in.)  in  any
dimension]  in  the  innermost  layer  of  arc-rated  material  that
would allow thermal energy to pass through the material.
Attachment Plug (Plug Cap) (Plug).  A device that, by insertion
in  a  receptacle,  establishes  a  connection  between  the  conduc‐
tors  of  the  attached  flexible  cord  and  the  conductors  connec‐
ted permanently to the receptacle. [70:100]
Authority  Having  Jurisdiction  (AHJ).    An  organization,  office,
or  individual  responsible  for  enforcing  the  requirements  of  a
code  or  standard,  or  for  approving  equipment,  materials,  an
installation, or a procedure.
Informational  Note:  The  phrase  “authority  having  jurisdiction,”
or  its  acronym  AHJ,  is  used  in  NFPA  documents  in  a  broad
manner,  since  jurisdictions  and  approval  agencies  vary,  as  do
their responsibilities. Where public safety is primary, the author‐
ity  having  jurisdiction  may  be  a  federal,  state,  local,  or  other
regional  department  or  individual  such  as  a  fire  chief;  fire
marshal; chief of a fire prevention bureau, labor department, or
health  department;  building  official;  electrical  inspector;  or
others  having  statutory  authority.  For  insurance  purposes,  an
insurance inspection department, rating bureau, or other insur‐
ance  company  representative  may  be  the  authority  having  juris‐
diction.  In  many  circumstances,  the  property  owner  or  his  or
her  designated  agent  assumes  the  role  of  the  authority  having
jurisdiction;  at  government  installations,  the  commanding  offi‐
cer or departmental official may be the authority having jurisdic‐
tion.
Automatic.    Performing  a  function  without  the  necessity  of
human intervention.
ΔBalaclava.  An arc-rated head-protective fabric that protects the
neck and head except for a small portion of the facial area.
Informational  Note:  Some  balaclava  designs  protect  the  neck
and  head  area  except  for  the  eyes  while  others  leave  the  eyes
and nose area unprotected.
Barricade.    A  physical  obstruction  such  as  tapes,  cones,  or
A-frame-type  wood  or  metal  structures  intended  to  provide  a
warning and to limit access.
ΔBarrier.    A  physical  obstruction  that  is  intended  to  prevent
contact with equipment or energized electrical conductors and
circuit parts.
Bonded  (Bonding).    Connected  to  establish  electrical  continu‐
ity and conductivity. [70:100]
Bonding Conductor or Jumper.  A reliable conductor to ensure
the   required   electrical   conductivity   between   metal   parts
required to be electrically connected. [70:100]
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 100 — DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 1
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–11
Boundary,  Arc  Flash.    When  an  arc  flash  hazard  exists,  an
approach  limit  from  an  arc  source  at  which  incident  energy
equals 1.2 cal/cm
2
 (5 J/cm
2
).
Informational  Note:  According  to  the  Stoll  skin  burn  injury
model,  the  onset  of  a  second  degree  burn  on  unprotected  skin
is likely to occur at an exposure of 1.2 cal/cm
2
 (5 J/cm
2
) for one
second.
Boundary, Limited Approach.  An approach limit at a distance
from an exposed energized electrical conductor or circuit part
within which a shock hazard exists.
Boundary,   Restricted   Approach.      An   approach   limit   at   a
distance  from  an  exposed  energized  electrical  conductor  or
circuit  part  within  which  there  is  an  increased  likelihood  of
electric  shock,  due  to  electrical  arc-over  combined  with  inad‐
vertent movement.
•
Building.    A  structure  that  stands  alone  or  that  is  cut  off  from
adjoining  structures  by  fire  walls  with  all  openings  therein
protected by approved fire doors. [70:100]
Cabinet.    An  enclosure  that  is  designed  for  either  surface
mounting or flush mounting and is provided with a frame, mat,
or trim in which a swinging door or doors are or can be hung.
[70:100]
Circuit Breaker.  A device designed to open and close a circuit
by  nonautomatic  means  and  to  open  the  circuit  automatically
on a predetermined overcurrent without damage to itself when
properly applied within its rating. [70:100]
Informational Note: The automatic opening means can be inte‐
gral,  direct  acting  with  the  circuit  breaker,  or  remote  from  the
circuit breaker.
Conductive.  Suitable for carrying electric current.
Conductor, Bare.  A conductor having no covering or electrical
insulation whatsoever. [70:100]
ΔConductor,  Covered.    A  conductor  encased  within  material  of
composition  or  thickness  that  is  not  recognized  by  NFPA  70,
National Electrical Code, as electrical insulation. [70:100]
ΔConductor, Insulated.  A conductor encased within material of
composition  and  thickness  that  is  recognized  by  NFPA  70,
National Electrical Code, as electrical insulation. [70:100]
Controller.  A device or group of devices that serves to govern,
in  some  predetermined  manner,  the  electric  power  delivered
to the apparatus to which it is connected. [70:100]
Current-Limiting Overcurrent Protective Device.  A device that,
when   interrupting   currents   in   its   current-limiting   range,
reduces  the  current  flowing  in  the  faulted  circuit  to  a  magni‐
tude substantially less than that obtainable in the same circuit if
the device were replaced with a solid conductor having compa‐
rable impedance.
Cutout.  An assembly of a fuse support with either a fuseholder,
fuse  carrier,  or  disconnecting  blade.  The  fuseholder  or  fuse
carrier  may  include  a  conducting  element  (fuse  link),  or  may
act as the disconnecting blade by the inclusion of a nonfusible
member.
De-energized.  Free from any electrical connection to a source
of potential difference and from electrical charge; not having a
potential different from that of the earth.
Device.  A unit of an electrical system, other than a conductor,
that carries or controls electric energy as its principal function.
[70:100]
Disconnecting  Means.    A  device,  or  group  of  devices,  or  other
means  by  which  the  conductors  of  a  circuit  can  be  disconnec‐
ted from their source of supply. [70:100]
Disconnecting (or Isolating) Switch (Disconnector, Isolator).  A
mechanical  switching  device  used  for  isolating  a  circuit  or
equipment from a source of power.
Dwelling  Unit.    A  single  unit  providing  complete  and  inde‐
pendent  living  facilities  for  one  or  more  persons,  including
permanent  provisions  for  living,  sleeping,  cooking,  and  sanita‐
tion. [70:100]
Electrical Hazard.  A dangerous condition such that contact or
equipment  failure  can  result  in  electric  shock,  arc  flash  burn,
thermal burn, or arc blast injury.
Informational  Note:  Class  2  power  supplies,  listed  low  voltage
lighting systems, and similar sources are examples of circuits or
systems that are not considered an electrical hazard.
Electrical Safety.  Identifying hazards associated with the use of
electrical energy and taking precautions to reduce the risk asso‐
ciated with those hazards.
Electrical Safety Program.  A documented system consisting of
electrical  safety  principles,  policies,  procedures,  and  processes
that  directs  activities  appropriate  for  the  risk  associated  with
electrical hazards.
Electrically Safe Work Condition.  A state in which an electrical
conductor  or  circuit  part  has  been  disconnected  from  ener‐
gized   parts,   locked/tagged   in   accordance   with   established
standards, tested to verify the absence of voltage, and, if neces‐
sary, temporarily grounded for personnel protection.
Informational  Note:  An  electrically  safe  work  condition  is  not  a
procedure,  it  is  a  state  wherein  all  hazardous  electrical  conduc‐
tors  or  circuit  parts  to  which  a  worker  might  be  exposed  are
maintained  in  a  de-energized  state  for  the  purpose  of  tempora‐
rily  eliminating  electrical  hazards  for  the  period  of  time  for
which the state is maintained.
Enclosed.  Surrounded by a case, housing, fence, or wall(s) that
prevents  persons  from  unintentionally  contacting  energized
parts.
Enclosure.  The case or housing of apparatus — or the fence or
walls  surrounding  an  installation  to  prevent  personnel  from
unintentionally  contacting  energized  electrical  conductors  or
circuit   parts   or   to   protect   the   equipment   from   physical
damage.
Energized.  Electrically connected to, or is, a source of voltage.
[70:100]
Equipment.    A  general  term,  including  fittings,  devices,  appli‐
ances, luminaires, apparatus, machinery, and the like, used as a
part   of,   or   in   connection   with,   an   electrical   installation.
[70:100]
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 100 — DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 1
70E–12
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Equipment,  Arc-Resistant.    Equipment  designed  to  withstand
the effects of an internal arcing fault and that directs the inter‐
nally released energy away from the employee.
Informational  Note  No.  1:  An  example  of  a  standard  that
provides   information   for   arc-resistant   equipment   is   IEEE
C37.20.7, Guide for Testing Switchgear Rated Up to 52 kV for Internal
Arcing Faults.
Informational Note No. 2: See O.2.4(9) for information on arc-
resistant equipment.
Exposed  (as  applied  to  energized  electrical  conductors  or
circuit  parts).    Capable  of  being  inadvertently  touched  or
approached  nearer  than  a  safe  distance  by  a  person.  It  is
applied  to  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts  that  are  not
suitably guarded, isolated, or insulated.
Exposed (as applied to wiring methods).  On or attached to the
surface or behind panels designed to allow access. [70:100]
Fault Current.  The amount of current delivered at a point on
the system during a short-circuit condition.
Fault  Current,  Available.    The  largest  amount  of  current  capa‐
ble of being delivered at a point on the system during a short-
circuit condition.
Informational  Note  No.  1:  A  short  circuit  can  occur  during
abnormal  conditions  such  as  a  fault  between  circuit  conductors
or a ground fault. See Figure 100.0.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  If  the  dc  supply  is  a  battery  system,
the  term  available  fault  current  refers  to  the  prospective  short-
circuit current.
Informational  Note  No.  3:  The  available  fault  current  varies  at
different locations within the system due to the location of sour‐
ces and system impedances.
Source
Equipment
OCPD
Load
ac or dc supply source
Available fault current
Available fault current
Equipment with a short-circuit
current rating
Overcurrent protective device
with an interrupting rating
Available fault current
ΔFIGURE  100.0     Available Fault Current.
Fitting.  An accessory such as a locknut, bushing, or other part
of  a  wiring  system  that  is  intended  primarily  to  perform  a
mechanical rather than an electrical function. [70:100]
Fuse.    An  overcurrent  protective  device  with  a  circuit-opening
fusible  part  that  is  heated  and  severed  by  the  passage  of  over‐
current through it.
Informational  Note:  A  fuse  comprises  all  the  parts  that  form  a
unit  capable  of  performing  the  prescribed  functions.  It  may  or
may not be the complete device necessary to connect it into an
electrical circuit.
Ground.  The earth. [70:100]
Ground   Fault.      An   unintentional,   electrically   
conductive
connection between an ungrounded conductor of an electrical
circuit   and   the   normally   non–current-carrying   conductors,
metallic  enclosures,  metallic  raceways,  metallic  equipment,  or
earth.
 [70:100]
Grounded  (Grounding).    Connected  (connecting)  to  ground
or  to  a  conductive  body  that  extends  the  ground  connection.
[70:100]
Grounded, Solidly.  Connected to ground without inserting any
resistor or impedance device. [70:100]
Grounded  Conductor.    A  system  or  circuit  conductor  that  is
intentionally grounded. [70:100]
Ground-Fault  Circuit  Interrupter  (GFCI).    A  device  intended
for the protection of personnel that functions to de-energize a
circuit  or  portion  thereof  within  an  established  period  of  time
when  a  current  to  ground  exceeds  the  values  established  for  a
Class A device. [70:100]
Informational  Note:  Class  A  ground-fault  circuit  interrupters
trip  when  the  current  to  ground  is  6  mA  or  higher  and  do  not
trip  when  the  current  to  ground  is  less  than  4  mA.  For  further
information,  see  ANSI/UL  943,  Standard  for  Ground-Fault  Circuit
Interrupters.
Grounding  Conductor,  Equipment  (EGC).    The  conductive
path(s) that provides a ground-fault current path and connects
normally   non–current-carrying   metal   parts   of   equipment
together  and  to  the  system  grounded  conductor  or  to  the
grounding electrode conductor, or both. [70:100]
Informational  Note  No.  1:  It  is  recognized  that  the  equipment
grounding conductor also performs bonding.
Informational Note No. 2: See 250.118 of NFPA
 70, National Elec‐
trical Code, for a list of acceptable equipment grounding conduc‐
tors.
Grounding  Electrode.    A  conducting  object  through  which  a
direct connection to earth is established. [70:100]
Grounding Electrode Conductor.  A conductor used to connect
the system grounded conductor or the equipment to a ground‐
ing electrode or to a point on the grounding electrode system.
[70:100]
Guarded.    Covered,  shielded,  fenced,  enclosed,  or  otherwise
protected  by  means  of  suitable  covers,  casings,  barriers,  rails,
screens,   mats,   or   platforms   to   remove   the   likelihood   of
approach or contact by persons or objects to a point of danger.
[70:100]
Hazard.  A source of possible injury or damage to health.
Hazardous.  Involving exposure to at least one hazard.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 100 — DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 1
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–13
Incident Energy.  The amount of thermal energy impressed on
a surface, a certain distance from the source, generated during
an electrical arc event. Incident energy is typically expressed in
calories per square centimeter (cal/cm
2
).
Incident  Energy  Analysis.    A  component  of  an  arc  flash  risk
assessment  used  to  predict  the  incident  energy  of  an  arc  flash
for a specified set of conditions.
Insulated.    Separated  from  other  conducting  surfaces  by  a
dielectric (including air space) offering a high resistance to the
passage of current.
Informational Note: When an object is said to be insulated, it is
understood  to  be  insulated  for  the  conditions  to  which  it  is
normally  subject.  Otherwise,  it  is,  within  the  purpose  of  these
rules, uninsulated.
Interrupter Switch.  A switch capable of making, carrying, and
interrupting specified currents.
Interrupting  Rating.    The  highest  current  at  rated  voltage  that
a  device  is  identified  to  interrupt  under  standard  test  condi‐
tions. [70:100]
Informational Note: Equipment intended to interrupt current at
other  than  fault  levels  may  have  its  interrupting  rating  implied
in other ratings, such as horsepower or locked rotor current.
Isolated  (as  applied  to  location).    Not  readily  accessible  to
persons unless special means for access are used. [70:100]
Labeled.  Equipment or materials to which has been attached a
label, symbol, or other identifying mark of an organization that
is    acceptable    to    the    authority    having    jurisdiction    and
concerned  with  product  evaluation,  that  maintains  periodic
inspection  of  production  of  labeled  equipment  or  materials,
and  by  whose  labeling  the  manufacturer  indicates  compliance
with   appropriate   standards   or   performance   in   a   specified
manner.
Listed.    Equipment,  materials,  or  services  included  in  a  list
published by an organization that is acceptable to the authority
having  jurisdiction  and  concerned  with  evaluation  of  products
or services, that maintains periodic inspection of production of
listed equipment or materials or periodic evaluation of services,
and whose listing states that either the equipment, material, or
service  meets  appropriate  designated  standards  or  has  been
tested and found suitable for a specified purpose.
Informational Note: The means for identifying listed equipment
may  vary  for  each  organization  concerned  with  product  evalua‐
tion;  some  organizations  do  not  recognize  equipment  as  listed
unless it is also labeled. The authority having jurisdiction should
utilize  the  system  employed  by  the  listing  organization  to  iden‐
tify a listed product.
Luminaire.    A  complete  lighting  unit  consisting  of  a  light
source,  such  as  a  lamp  or  lamps,  together  with  the  parts
designed  to  position  the  light  source  and  connect  it  to  the
power  supply.  It  may  also  include  parts  to  protect  the  light
source  or  the  ballast  or  to  distribute  the  light.  A  lampholder
itself is not a luminaire. [70:100]
Maintenance,  Condition  of.    The  state  of  the  electrical  equip‐
ment considering the manufacturers’ instructions, manufactur‐
ers’    recommendations,    and    applicable    industry    codes,
standards, and recommended practices.
Motor  Control  Center.    An  assembly  of  one  or  more  enclosed
sections  having  a  common  power  bus  and  principally  contain‐
ing motor control units. [70:100]
Outlet.  A point on the wiring system at which current is taken
to supply utilization equipment. [70:100]
Overcurrent.    Any  current  in  excess  of  the  rated  current  of
equipment  or  the  ampacity  of  a  conductor.  It  may  result  from
overload, short circuit, or ground fault. [70:100]
Informational Note: A current in excess of rating may be accom‐
modated by certain equipment and conductors for a given set of
conditions.  Therefore,  the  rules  for  overcurrent  protection  are
specific for particular situations.
Overload.    Operation  of  equipment  in  excess  of  normal,  full-
load rating, or of a conductor in excess of rated ampacity that,
when  it  persists  for  a  sufficient  length  of  time,  would  cause
damage  or  dangerous  overheating.  A  fault,  such  as  a  short
circuit or ground fault, is not an overload. [70:100]
Panelboard.    A  single  panel  or  group  of  panel  units  designed
for assembly in the form of a single panel, including buses and
automatic  overcurrent  devices,  and  equipped  with  or  without
switches   for   the   control   of   light,   heat,   or   power   circuits;
designed  to  be  placed  in  a  cabinet  or  cutout  box  placed  in  or
against  a  wall,  partition,  or  other  support;  and  accessible  only
from the front. [70:100]
Premises Wiring (System).  Interior and exterior wiring, includ‐
ing  power,  lighting,  control,  and  signal  circuit  wiring  together
with  all  their  associated  hardware,  fittings,  and  wiring  devices,
both  permanently  and  temporarily  installed.  This  includes:
(a)  wiring  from  the  service  point  or  power  source  to  the
outlets;  or  (b)  wiring  from  and  including  the  power  source  to
the outlets where there is no service point.
Such  wiring  does  not  include  wiring  internal  to  appliances,
luminaires,  motors,  controllers,  motor  control  centers,  and
similar equipment. [70:100]
Informational  Note:  Power  sources  include,  but  are  not  limited
to,  interconnected  or  stand-alone  batteries,  solar  photovoltaic
systems, other distributed generation systems, or generators.
Qualified Person.  One who has demonstrated skills and knowl‐
edge  related  to  the  construction  and  operation  of  electrical
equipment and installations and has received safety training to
identify the hazards and reduce the associated risk.
Raceway.  An enclosed channel of metal or nonmetallic materi‐
als  designed  expressly  for  holding  wires,  cables,  or  busbars,
with   additional   functions   as   permitted   in   this   standard.
[70:100]
Δ
Receptacle.    A  contact  device  installed  at  the  outlet  for  the
connection of an attachment plug
, or for the direct connection
of  electrical  utilization  equipment  designed  to  mate  with  the
corresponding  contact  device.  A  single  receptacle  is  a  single
contact device with no other contact device on the same yoke.
A  multiple  receptacle  is  two  or  more  contact  devices  on  the
same yoke. [70:100]
Risk.  A combination of the likelihood of occurrence of injury
or  damage  to  health  and  the  severity  of  injury  or  damage  to
health that results from a hazard.
Risk  Assessment.    An  overall  process  that  identifies  hazards,
estimates  the  likelihood  of  occurrence  of  injury  or  damage  to
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 100 — DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 1
70E–14
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
health,  estimates  the  potential  severity  of  injury  or  damage  to
health, and determines if protective measures are required.
Informational Note: As used in this standard, arc flash risk assess‐
ment and shock risk assessment are types of risk assessments.
Service  Drop.    The  overhead  conductors  between  the  utility
electric supply system and the service point. [70:100]
Service  Lateral.    The  underground  conductors  between  the
utility electric supply system and the service point. [70:100]
Service  Point.    The  point  of  connection  between  the  facilities
of the serving utility and the premises wiring. [70:100]
Informational  Note:  The  service  point  can  be  described  as  the
point of demarcation between where the serving utility ends and
the  premises  wiring  begins.    The  serving  utility  generally  speci‐
fies the location of the service point based on the conditions of
service.
Shock Hazard.  A source of possible injury or damage to health
associated with current through the body caused by contact or
approach to exposed energized electrical conductors or circuit
parts.
Informational Note: Injury and damage to health resulting from
shock  is  dependent  on  the  magnitude  of  the  electrical  current,
the  power  source  frequency  (e.g.,  60  Hz,  50  Hz,  dc),  and  the
path and time duration of current through the body. The phys‐
iological  reaction  ranges  from  perception,  muscular  contrac‐
tions, inability to let go, ventricular fibrillation, tissue burns, and
death.
Short-Circuit  Current  Rating.    The  prospective  symmetrical
fault  current  at  a  nominal  voltage  to  which  an  apparatus  or
system  is  able  to  be  connected  without  sustaining  damage
exceeding defined acceptance criteria. [70:100]
Single-Line Diagram.  A diagram that shows, by means of single
lines  and  graphic  symbols,  the  course  of  an  electric  circuit  or
system  of  circuits  and  the  component  devices  or  parts  used  in
the circuit or system.
Special  Permission.    The  written  consent  of  the  authority
having jurisdiction. [70:100]
Step  Potential.    A  ground  potential  gradient  difference  that
can cause current flow from foot to foot through the body.
Structure.  That which is built or constructed. [70:100]
Switch,  Isolating.    A  switch  intended  for  isolating  an  electric
circuit from the source of power. It has no interrupting rating,
and it is intended to be operated only after the circuit has been
opened by some other means. [70:100]
Switchboard.  A large single panel, frame, or assembly of panels
on  which  are  mounted  on  the  face,  back,  or  both,  switches,
overcurrent  and  other  protective  devices,  buses,  and  usually
instruments. These assemblies are generally accessible from the
rear  as  well  as  from  the  front  and  are  not  intended  to  be  in‐
stalled in cabinets. [70:100]
Switchgear,   Metal-Clad.      A   switchgear   assembly   completely
enclosed on all sides and top with sheet metal, having drawout
switching  and  interrupting  devices,  and  all  live  parts  enclosed
within grounded metal compartments.
Switchgear, Metal-Enclosed.  A switchgear assembly completely
enclosed on all sides and top with sheet metal (except for venti‐
lating  openings  and  inspection  windows),  containing  primary
power  circuit  switching,  interrupting  devices,  or  both,  with
buses and connections. This assembly may include control and
auxiliary  devices.  Access  to  the  interior  of  the  enclosure  is
provided  by  doors,  removable  covers,  or  both.  Metal-enclosed
switchgear   is   available   in   non-arc-resistant   or   arc-resistant
constructions.
Switching  Device.    A  device  designed  to  close,  open,  or  both,
one or more electric circuits.
Touch  Potential.    A  ground  potential  gradient  difference  that
can  cause  current  flow  from  hand  to  hand,  hand  to  foot,  or
another path, other than foot to foot, through the body.
Ungrounded.    Not  connected  to  ground  or  to  a  conductive
body that extends the ground connection. [70:100]
Unqualified Person.  A person who is not a qualified person.
Utilization Equipment.  Equipment that utilizes electric energy
for  electronic,  electromechanical,  chemical,  heating,  lighting,
or similar purposes. [70:100]
Voltage  (of  a  Circuit).    The  greatest  root-mean-square  (rms)
(effective)  difference  of  potential  between  any  two  conductors
of the circuit concerned. [70:100]
Informational  Note:  Some  systems,  such  as  three-phase  4-wire,
single-phase  3-wire,  and  3-wire  direct-current,  may  have  various
circuits of various voltages.
Voltage,  Nominal.    A  nominal  value  assigned  to  a  circuit  or
system  for  the  purpose  of  conveniently  designating  its  voltage
class (e.g., 120/240 volts, 480Y/277 volts, 600 volts). [70:100]
Informational  Note  No.  1:  The  actual  voltage  at  which  a  circuit
operates can vary from the nominal within a range that permits
satisfactory operation of equipment.
Informational Note No. 2: See ANSI C84.1, Electric Power Systems
and Equipment — Voltage Ratings (60 Hz).
Informational  Note  No.  3:  Certain  battery  units  are  rated  at
nominal  48  volts  dc  but  have  a  charging  float  voltage  up  to
58  volts.  In  dc  applications,  60  volts  is  used  to  cover  the  entire
range of float voltages.
ΔWorking  Distance.    The  distance  between  a  person’s  face  and
chest area and a prospective arc source.
Informational  Note:  Incident  energy  increases  as  the  distance
from the arc source decreases. See 130.5(C)(1) for further infor‐
mation.
Working On (energized electrical conductors or circuit parts). 
Intentionally   coming   in   contact   with   energized   electrical
conductors  or  circuit  parts  with  the  hands,  feet,  or  other  body
parts,  with  tools,  probes,  or  with  test  equipment,  regardless  of
the  personal  protective  equipment  (PPE)  a  person  is  wearing.
There  are  two  categories  of  “working  on”:  Diagnostic  (testing)  is
taking   readings   or   measurements   of   electrical   equipment,
conductors,  or  circuit  parts  with  approved  test  equipment  that
does  not  require  making  any  physical  change  to  the  electrical
equipment,  conductors,  or  circuit  parts.  Repair  is  any  physical
alteration  of  electrical  equipment
,  conductors,  or  circuit  parts
(such   as   making   or   tightening   connections,   removing   or
replacing components, etc.).
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 110 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES
110.4
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–15
ARTICLE 105
Application of Safety-Related Work
Practices and Procedures
105.1  Scope.  Chapter  1  covers  electrical  safety-related  work
practices and procedures for employees who are exposed to an
electrical  hazard  in  workplaces  covered  in  the  scope  of  this
standard.
105.2  Purpose.  These  practices  and  procedures  are  intended
to  provide  for  employee  safety  relative  to  electrical  hazards  in
the workplace.
Informational Note: For general categories of electrical hazards,
see Informative Annex K.
105.3  Responsibility.
(A) Employer   Responsibility.  The   employer   shall   have   the
following responsibilities:
(1)Establish,  document,  and  implement  the  safety-related
work practices and procedures required by this standard.
(2)Provide employees with training in the employer’s safety-
related work practices and procedures.
(B) Employee Responsibility.  The employee shall comply with
the  safety-related  work  practices  and  procedures  provided  by
the employer.
105.5  Organization.  Chapter  1  of  this  standard  is  divided  into
five  articles.  Article  100  provides  definitions  for  terms  used  in
one  or  more  of  the  chapters  of  this  document.  Article  105
provides  for  application  of  safety-related  work  practices  and
procedures. Article 110 provides general requirements for elec‐
trical  safety-related  work  practices  and  procedures.  Article  120
provides requirements for establishing an electrically safe work
condition.  Article  130  provides  requirements  for  work  involv‐
ing electrical hazards.
ARTICLE 110
General Requirements for Electrical
Safety-Related Work Practices
110.1  Priority.  Hazard elimination shall be the first priority in
the implementation of safety-related work practices.
Informational   Note   No.   1:   Elimination   is   the   risk   control
method  listed  first  in  the  hierarchy  of  risk  control  identified  in
110.5(H)(3). See Annex F for examples of hazard elimination.
Informational Note No. 2: An electrically safe work condition is
a  state  wherein  all  hazardous  electrical  conductors  or  circuit
parts to which a worker might be exposed are placed and main‐
tained  in  a  de-energized  state,  for  the  purpose  of  temporarily
eliminating  electrical  hazards.  See  Article  120  for  requirements
to establish an electrically safe work condition for the period of
time for which the state is maintained. See Informative Annex F
for  information  regarding  the  hierarchy  of  risk  control  and
hazard elimination.
110.2  General.  Electrical  conductors  and  circuit  parts  shall
not  be  considered  to  be  in  an  electrically  safe  work  condition
until all of the requirements of Article 120 have been met.
Safe  work  practices  applicable  to  the  circuit  voltage  and
energy  level  shall  be  used  in  accordance  with  Article  
110  and
Article  130  until  such  time  that  electrical  conductors  and
circuit parts are in an electrically safe work condition.
Informational  Note:  See  120.5  for  the  steps  to  establish  and
verify an electrically safe work condition.
110.3 Electrically  Safe  Work  
Condition.  Energized  electrical
conductors  and  circuit  parts  operating  at  voltages  equal  to  or
greater  than  50  volts  shall  be  put  into  an  electrically  safe  work
condition  before  an  employee  performs  work  if  any  of  the
following conditions exist:
(1)The employee is within the limited approach boundary.
(2)The  employee  interacts  with  equipment  where  conduc‐
tors or circuit parts are not exposed but an increased like‐
lihood  of  injury  from  an  exposure  to  an  arc  flash  hazard
exists.
110.4  Energized Work.
(A) Additional  Hazards  or  Increased  Risk.  Energized  work
shall  be  permitted  where  the  employer  can  demonstrate  that
de-energizing introduces additional hazards or increased risk.
Informational    Note:    Examples    of    additional    hazards    or
increased  risk  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  interruption  of
life-support    equipment,    deactivation    of    emergency    alarm
systems,  and  shutdown  of  hazardous  location  ventilation  equip‐
ment.
(B)  Infeasibility.  Energized work shall be permitted where the
employer  can  demonstrate  that  the  task  to  be  performed  is
infeasible  in  a  de-energized  state  due  to  equipment  design  or
operational limitations.
Informational Note: Examples of work that might be performed
within  the  limited  approach  boundary  of  exposed  energized
electrical conductors or circuit parts because of infeasibility due
to equipment design or operational limitations include perform‐
ing  diagnostics  and  testing  (for  example,  start-up  or  trouble‐
shooting)  of  electric  circuits  that  can  only  be  performed  with
the circuit energized and work on circuits that form an integral
part  of  a  continuous  process  that  would  otherwise  need  to  be
completely shut down in order to permit work on one circuit or
piece of equipment.
(C) Equipment  Operating  at  Less  Than  50  Volts.  Energized
electrical conductors and circuit parts that operate at less than
50  volts  shall  not  be  required  to  be  de-energized  where  the
capacity of the source and any overcurrent protection between
the  energy  source  and  the  worker  are  considered  and  it  is
determined that there will be no increased exposure to electri‐
cal burns or to explosion due to electric arcs.
(D) Normal  Operating  Condition.  Normal  operation  of  elec‐
tric  equipment  shall  be  permitted  where  a  normal  operating
condition  exists.  A  normal  operating  condition  exists  when  all
of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1)The equipment is properly installed.
(2)The equipment is properly maintained.
(3)The  equipment  is  used  in  accordance  with  instructions
included  in  the  listing  and  labeling  and  in  accordance
with manufacturer’s instructions.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 110 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES
110.5
70E–16
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
(4)The equipment doors are closed and secured.
(5)All equipment covers are in place and secured.
(6)There is no evidence of impending failure.
Informational Note: The phrase properly installed means that the
equipment  is  installed  in  accordance  with  applicable  industry
codes and standards and the manufacturer’s recommendations.
The  phrase  properly  maintained  means  that  the  equipment  has
been maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s recom‐
mendations  and  applicable  industry  codes  and  standards.  The
phrase  evidence  of  impending  failure  means  that  there  is  evidence
such  as  arcing,  overheating,  loose  or  bound  equipment  parts,
visible damage, or deterioration.
110.5  Electrical Safety Program.
Δ(A)  General.  The employer shall implement and document an
overall electrical safety program that directs activity appropriate
to the risk associated with electrical hazards.
Informational  Note  No.  1:  Safety-related  work  practices  such  as
verification  of  proper  maintenance  and  installation,  alerting
techniques,  auditing  requirements,  and  training  requirements
provided in this standard are administrative controls and part of
an overall electrical safety program.
Informational Note No. 2: 
See Informative Annex P for informa‐
tion  on  implementing  an  electrical  safety  program  within  an
employer’s occupational health and safety management system.
Informational Note No. 3: IEEE 3007.1, Recommended Practice for
the  Operation  and  Management  of  Industrial  and  Commercial  Power
Systems, provides additional guidance for the implementation of
the electrical safety program.
Informational Note No. 4: IEEE 3007.3, Recommended Practice for
Electrical Safety in Industrial and Commercial Power Systems, provides
additional guidance for electrical safety in the workplace.
(B)  Inspection.  The  electrical  safety  program  shall  include
elements  to  verify  that  newly  installed  or  modified  electrical
equipment  or  systems  have  been  inspected  to  comply  with
applicable  installation  codes  and  standards  prior  to  being
placed into service.
(C) Condition  of  Maintenance.  The  electrical  safety  program
shall include elements that consider condition of maintenance
of electrical equipment and systems.
(D) Awareness    and    Self-Discipline.  The    electrical    safety
program  shall  be  designed  to  provide  an  awareness  of  the
potential  electrical  hazards  to  employees  who  work  in  an  envi‐
ronment with the presence of electrical hazards. The program
shall be developed to provide the required self-discipline for all
employees  who  must  perform  work  that  may  involve  electrical
hazards.   The   program   shall   instill   safety   principles   and
controls.
(E) Electrical  Safety  Program  Principles.  The  electrical  safety
program shall identify the principles upon which it is based.
Informational  Note:  For  examples  of  typical  electrical  safety
program principles, see Informative Annex E.
(F) Electrical  Safety  Program  Controls.  An  electrical  safety
program shall identify the controls by which it is measured and
monitored.
Informational  Note:  For  examples  of  typical  electrical  safety
program controls, see Informative Annex E.
(G) Electrical  Safety  Program  Procedures.  An  electrical  safety
program  shall  identify  the  procedures  to  be  utilized  before
work is started by employees exposed to an electrical hazard.
Informational Note: For an example of a typical electrical safety
program procedure, see Informative Annex E.
(H) Risk Assessment Procedure.  The electrical safety program
shall include a risk assessment procedure and shall comply with
110.5(H)(1) through 110.5(H)(3).
Δ(1) Elements of a Risk Assessment Procedure.  The risk assess‐
ment  procedure  shall  address  employee  exposure  to  electrical
hazards and shall identify the process to be used before work is
started to carry out the following:
(1)Identify hazards
(2)Assess risks
(3)Implement risk control according to the hierarchy of risk
control methods
Informational Note No. 1: The risk assessment procedure could
include  identifying  when  a  second  person  could  be  required
and the training and equipment that person should have.
Informational Note No. 2: For more information regarding risk
assessment  and  the  hierarchy  of  risk  control,  see  Informative
Annex F.
(2)  Human Error.  The risk assessment procedure shall address
the  potential  for  human  error  and  its  negative  consequences
on  people,  processes,  the  work  environment,  and  equipment
relative to the electrical hazards in the workplace.
Informational  Note:  The  potential  for  human  error  varies  with
factors such as tasks and the work environment. See Informative
Annex Q.
Δ(3) Hierarchy  of  Risk  Control  Methods.  The  risk  assessment
procedure  shall  require  that  preventive  and  protective  risk
control   methods   be   implemented   in   accordance   with   the
following hierarchy:
(1)Elimination
(2)Substitution
(3)Engineering controls
(4)Awareness
(5)Administrative controls
(6)PPE
Informational  Note  No.  1:  Elimination,  substitution,  and  engi‐
neering  controls  are  the  most  effective  methods  to  reduce  risk
as  they  are  usually  applied  at  the  source  of  possible  injury  or
damage  to  health  and  they  are  less  likely  to  be  affected  by
human  error.  Awareness,  administrative  controls,  and  PPE  are
the least effective methods to reduce risk as they are not applied
at the source and they are more likely to be affected by human
error.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  See  Informative  Annex  F  for  more
information  regarding  the  hierarchy  of  risk  control  methods
and examples of those methods.
(I) Job Safety Planning and Job Briefing.  Before starting each
job  that  involves  exposure  to  electrical  hazards,  the  employee
in  charge  shall  complete  a  job  safety  plan  and  conduct  a  job
briefing with the employees involved.
(1)  Job Safety Planning.  The job safety plan shall be in accord‐
ance with the following:
(1)Be completed by a qualified person
(2)Be documented
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 110 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES
110.6
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–17
(3)Include the following information:
a.A description of the job and the individual tasks
b.Identification of the electrical hazards associated with
each task
c.A  shock  risk  assessment  in  accordance  with  130.4  for
tasks involving a shock hazard
d.An  arc  flash  risk  assessment  in  accordance  with  130.5
for tasks involving an arc flash hazard
e.Work  procedures  involved,  special  precautions,  and
energy source controls
Informational  Note:  For  an  example  of  a  job  safety  planning
checklist see Figure I.2.
(2) Job  Briefing.  The  job  briefing  shall  cover  the  job  safety
plan  and  the  information  on  the  energized  electrical  work
permit, if a permit is required.
Δ(3) Change  in  Scope.  Additional  job  safety  planning  and  job
briefings  shall  be  held  if  changes  occur  during  the  course  of
the work that might affect the safety of employees.
Informational  Note:  For  an  example  of  a  job  briefing  checklist,
see Figure I.1.
(J) Incident Investigations.  The electrical safety program shall
include elements to investigate electrical incidents.
Informational Note: Electrical incidents include events or occur‐
rences  that  result  in,  or  could  have  resulted  in,  a  fatality,  an
injury, or damage to health. Incidents that do not result in fatal‐
ity,  injury,  or  damage  to  health  are  commonly  referred  to  as  a
“close call” or “near miss.”
N(K) Electrically   Safe   Work   Condition   Policy.  An   electrical
safety program shall include an electrically safe work condition
policy that complies with 110.3.
N(L) Lockout/Tagout  Program.  The  electrical  safety  program
shall include the information required by one of the following:
(1)A lockout/tagout program in accordance with 120.1(A)
(2)A  reference  to  the  employer’s  lockout/tagout  program
established in accordance with 120.1(A)
(M)  Auditing.
(1) Electrical   Safety   Program   Audit.  The   electrical   safety
program  shall  be  audited  to  verify  that  the  principles  and
procedures  of  the  electrical  safety  program  are  in  compliance
with this standard. Audits shall be performed at intervals not to
exceed 3 years.
(2) Field Work Audit.  Field work shall be audited to verify that
the requirements contained in the procedures of the electrical
safety  program  are  being  followed.  When  the  auditing  deter‐
mines that the principles and procedures of the electrical safety
program  are  not  being  followed,  the  appropriate  revisions  to
the  training  program  or  revisions  to  the  procedures  shall  be
made.  Audits  shall  be  performed  at  intervals  not  to  exceed
1 year.
(3) Lockout/Tagout  Program  and  Procedure  Audit.  The  lock‐
out/tagout  program  and  procedures  required  by  Article  120
shall be audited by a qualified person at intervals not to exceed
1  year.  The  audit  shall  cover  at  least  one  lockout/tagout  in
progress.  The  audit  shall  be  designed  to  identify  and  correct
deficiencies in the following:
(1)The lockout/tagout program and procedures
(2)The lockout/tagout training
(3)Worker execution of the lockout/tagout procedure
(4)  Documentation.  The  audits  required  by  110.5(M)  shall  be
documented.
110.6  Training Requirements.
(A) Electrical   Safety   Training.  The   training   requirements
contained  in  110.6(A)  shall  apply  to  employees  exposed  to  an
electrical  hazard  when  the  risk  associated  with  that  hazard  is
not  reduced  to  a  safe  level  by  the  applicable  electrical  installa‐
tion  requirements.  Such  employees  shall  be  trained  to  under‐
stand  the  specific  hazards  associated  with  electrical  energy.
They  shall  be  trained  in  safety-related  work  practices  and
procedural  requirements,  as  necessary,  to  provide  protection
from  the  electrical  hazards  associated  with  their  respective  job
or task assignments. Employees shall be trained to identify and
understand  the  relationship  between  electrical  hazards  and
possible injury.
Informational  Note:  For  further  information  concerning  instal‐
lation requirements, see NFPA
 70, National Electrical Code.
(1) Qualified  Person.  A  qualified  person  shall  be  trained  and
knowledgeable  in  the  construction  and  operation  of  equip‐
ment or a specific work method and be trained to identify and
avoid  the  electrical  hazards  that  might  be  present  with  respect
to that equipment or work method.
(a)     Such  persons  shall  also  be  familiar  with  the  proper
use  of  the  special  precautionary  techniques,  applicable  electri‐
cal  policies  and  procedures,  PPE,  insulating  and  shielding
materials, and insulated tools and test equipment.
(b)     A person can be considered qualified with respect to
certain equipment and tasks but still be unqualified for others.
(c)     Such  persons  permitted  to  work  within  the  limited
approach   boundary   shall,   at   a   minimum,   be   additionally
trained in all of the following:
(1)Skills  and  techniques  necessary  to  distinguish  exposed
energized  electrical  conductors  and  circuit  parts  from
other parts of electrical equipment
(2)Skills and techniques necessary to determine the nominal
voltage  of  exposed  energized  electrical  conductors  and
circuit parts
(3)Approach  distances  specified  in  Table  130.4(E)(a)  and
Table  130.4(E)(b)  and  the  corresponding  voltages  to
which the qualified person will be exposed
(4)Decision-making  process  necessary  to  be  able  to  do  the
following:
a.Perform the job safety planning
b.Identify electrical hazards
c.Assess the associated risk
d.Select  the  appropriate  risk  control  methods  from  the
hierarchy   of   controls   identified   in   110.5(H)(3),
including PPE
(d)     An  employee  who  is  undergoing  on-the-job  training
for the purpose of obtaining the skills and knowledge necessary
to  be  considered  a  qualified  person,  and  who  in  the  course  of
such training demonstrates an ability to perform specific duties
safely at his or her level of training, and who is under the direct
supervision  of  a  qualified  person  shall  be  considered  to  be  a
qualified person for the performance of those specific duties.
(e)     Employees  shall  be  trained  to  select  an  appropriate
test  instrument  and  shall  demonstrate  how  to  use  a  device  to
verify the absence of voltage, including interpreting indications
provided by the device. The training shall include information
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 110 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES
110.6
70E–18
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
that enables the employee to understand all limitations of each
test instrument that might be used.
(f)     The employer shall determine through regular super‐
vision  or  through  inspections  conducted  on  at  least  an  annual
basis  that  each  employee  is  complying  with  the  safety-related
work practices required by this standard.
(2) Unqualified Persons. Unqualified persons shall be trained
in,  and  be  familiar  with,  any  electrical  safety-related  practices
necessary for their safety.
Δ(3) Additional  Training  and  Retraining. Additional  training
and  retraining  in  safety-related  work  practices  and  applicable
changes in this standard shall be performed at intervals not to
exceed  3  years.  An  employee  shall  receive  additional  training
or retraining if any of the following conditions exists:
(1)The   supervision   or   annual   inspections   indicate   the
employee  is  not  complying  with  the  safety-related  work
practices.
(2)New  technology,  new  types  of  equipment,  or  changes  in
procedures necessitate the use of safety-related work prac‐
tices   different   from   those   that   the   employee   would
normally use.
(3)The  employee  needs  to  review  tasks  that  are  performed
less often than once per year.
(4)The  employee  needs  to  review  safety-related  work  practi‐
ces not normally used by the employee during regular job
duties.
(5)The employee’s job duties change.
(4) Type  of  Training.  The  training  required  by  110.6(A)  shall
be classroom, on-the-job, or a combination of the two. The type
and extent of the training provided shall be determined by the
risk to the employee.
Informational  Note:  Classroom  training  can  include  interactive
electronic or interactive web-based training components.
(5) Electrical  Safety  Training  Documentation.  The  employer
shall  document  that  each  employee  has  received  the  training
required  by  110.6(A).  This  documentation  shall  be  in  accord‐
ance with the following:
(1)Be made when the employee demonstrates proficiency in
the work practices involved
(2)Be  retained  for  the  duration  of  the  employee’s  employ‐
ment
(3)Contain  the  content  of  the  training,  each  employee’s
name, and dates of training
Informational Note No. 1: Content of the training could include
one  or  more  of  the  following:  course  syllabus,  course  curricu‐
lum, outline, table of contents, or training objectives.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  Employment  records  that  indicate
that  an  employee  has  received  the  required  training  are  an
acceptable means of meeting this requirement.
(B)  Lockout/Tagout Procedure Training.
Δ(1) Initial Training.  Employees involved in the lockout/tagout
procedures required by 120.2(B) shall be trained in the follow‐
ing:
(1)The lockout/tagout procedures
(2)Their responsibility in the execution of the procedures
(2)  Retraining.  Retraining  in  the  lockout/tagout  procedures
shall be performed as follows:
(1)When the procedures are revised
(2)At intervals not to exceed 3 years
(3)When supervision or annual inspections indicate that the
employee   is   not   complying   with   the   lockout/tagout
procedures
(3)  Lockout/Tagout Training Documentation.
(a)     The  employer  shall  document  that  each  employee
has received the training required by 110.6(B).
(b)     The    documentation    shall    be    made    when    the
employee   demonstrates   proficiency   in   the   work   practices
involved.
(c)     The  documentation  shall  contain  the  content  of  the
training, each employee’s name, and the dates of the training.
Informational  Note:  Content  of  the  training  could  include  one
or  more  of  the  following:  course  syllabus,  course  curriculum,
outline, table of contents, or training objectives.
(C)  Emergency Response Training.
(1)  Contact Release.  Employees exposed to shock hazards and
those  responsible  for  the  safe  release  of  victims  from  contact
with  energized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts  shall  be
trained  in  methods  of  safe  release.  Refresher  training  shall
occur annually.
(2)  First Aid, Emergency Response, and Resuscitation.
(a)     Employees  responsible  for  responding  to  medical
emergencies shall be trained in first aid and emergency proce‐
dures.
(b)     Employees  responsible  for  responding  to  medical
emergencies  shall  be  trained  in  cardiopulmonary  resuscitation
(CPR).
(c)     Employees  responsible  for  responding  to  medical
emergencies shall be trained in the use of an automated exter‐
nal  defibrillator  (AED)  if  an  employer’s  emergency  response
plan includes the use of this device.
(d)     Training  shall  occur  at  a  frequency  that  satisfies  the
requirements of the certifying body.
Informational  Note:  Employees  responsible  for  responding  to
medical  emergencies  might  not  be  first  responders  or  medical
professionals.  Such  employees  could  be  a  second  person,  a
safety watch, or a craftsperson.
(3) Training  Verification.  Employers  shall  verify  at  least  annu‐
ally that employee training required by 110.6(C) is current.
(4)  Documentation.  The  employer  shall  document  that  the
training required by 110.6(C) has occurred.
110.7  Host and Contract Employers’ Responsibilities.
(A)  Host Employer Responsibilities.
(1)  The  host  employer  shall  inform  contract  employers  of  the
following:
(1)Known hazards that are covered by this standard, that are
related  to  the  contract  employer’s  work,  and  that  might
not be recognized by the contract employer or its employ‐
ees
(2)Information  about  the  employer’s  installation  that  the
contract   employer   needs   to   make   the   assessments
required by Chapter 1
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 110 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES
110.9
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–19
(2)  The    host    employer    shall    report    observed    contract
employer–related  violations  of  this  standard  to  the  contract
employer.
Informational  Note:  Examples  of  a  host  employer  can  include
owner or their designee, construction manager, general contrac‐
tor, or employer.
(B)  Contract Employer Responsibilities.
(1)  The contract employer shall ensure that each of his or her
employees  is  instructed  in  the  hazards  communicated  to  the
contract  employer  by  the  host  employer.  This  instruction  shall
be in addition to the basic training required by this standard.
(2)  The contract employer shall ensure that each of his or her
employees follows the work practices required by this standard
and safety-related work rules required by the host employer.
(3)  The  contract  employer  shall  advise  the  host  employer  of
the following:
(1)Any unique hazards presented by the contract employer’s
work
(2)Hazards  identified  during  the  course  of  work  by  the
contract  employer  that  were  not  communicated  by  the
host employer
(3)The  measures  the  contractor  took  to  correct  any  viola‐
tions  reported  by  the  host  employer  under  110.7(A)(2)
and  to  prevent  such  violation  from  recurring  in  the
future
(C)  Documentation.  Where  the  host  employer  has  knowledge
of  hazards  covered  by  this  standard  that  are  related  to  the
contract  employer’s  work,  there  shall  be  a  documented  meet‐
ing between the host employer and the contract employer.
Informational  Note  to  110.7:  On  multi-employer  work  sites  (in
all  industry  sectors),  more  than  one  employer  can  be  responsi‐
ble  for  identifying  hazardous  conditions  and  creating  safe  work
practices.
110.8  Test Instruments and Equipment.
(A)  Testing.  Only qualified persons shall perform tasks such as
testing,  troubleshooting,  and  voltage  measuring  on  electrical
equipment 
where an electrical hazard exists.
(B)  Rating.  Test instruments, equipment, and their accessories
shall be as follows:
(1)Rated for circuits and equipment where they are utilized
(2)Approved for the purpose
(3)Used in accordance with any instructions provided by the
manufacturer
Informational  Note:  See  UL  61010-1,  Safety  Requirements  for  Elec‐
trical  Equipment  for  Measurement,  Control,  and  Laboratory  Use  –
Part  1:  General  Requirements,  for  rating  and  design  requirements
for  voltage  measurement  and  test  instruments  intended  for  use
on  electrical  systems  1000  volts  and  below  and  UL  61010-2-033,
Safety Requirements for Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control,
and Laboratory Use — Part 2-033: Particular Requirements for Hand-
Held Multimeters and Other Meters, for Domestic and Professional use,
Capable of Measuring Mains Voltage.
(C)  Design.  Test  instruments,  equipment,  and  their  accesso‐
ries shall be designed for the environment to which they will be
exposed and for the manner in which they will be utilized.
(D) Visual Inspection and Repair.  Test instruments and equip‐
ment and all associated test leads, cables, power cords, probes,
and  connectors  shall  be  visually  inspected  for  external  defects
and damage before each use. If there is a defect or evidence of
damage that might expose an employee to injury, the defective
or damaged item shall be removed from service. No employee
shall  use  it  until  a  person(s)  qualified  to  perform  the  repairs
and  tests  that  are  necessary  to  render  the  equipment  safe  has
done so.
(E) Operation  Verification.  When  test  instruments  are  used
for testing the absence of voltage on conductors or circuit parts
operating at voltages equal to or greater than 50 volts, the oper‐
ation of the test instrument shall be verified on any known volt‐
age  source  before  and  after  an  absence  of  voltage  test  is
performed.
110.9 Portable  Cord-  and-Plug-Connected  Electric  Equipment.
This  section  applies  to  the  use  of  cord-  and  plug-connected
equipment,  including  cord
-  and  plug-connected  test  instru‐
ments and cord sets (extension cords).
(A) Handling   and   Storage.  Portable   equipment   shall   be
handled  and  stored  in  a  manner  that  will  not  cause  damage.
Flexible  electric  cords  connected  to  equipment  shall  not  be
used for raising or lowering the equipment. Flexible cords shall
not be fastened with staples or hung in such a fashion as could
damage the outer jacket or insulation.
(B)  Grounding-Type Equipment.
(a)     A  flexible  cord  used  with  grounding-type  utilization
equipment shall contain an equipment grounding conductor.
(b)     Attachment   plugs   and   receptacles   shall   not   be
connected   or   altered   in   a   manner   that   would   interrupt
continuity  of  the  equipment  grounding  conductor.  Addition‐
ally, these devices shall not be altered in order to allow use in a
manner that was not intended by the manufacturer.
(c)     Adapters  that  interrupt  the  continuity  of  the  equip‐
ment grounding conductor shall not be used.
Δ(C) Visual  Inspection  and  Repair  of  Portable  Cord-  and  Plug-
Connected Equipment and Flexible Cord Sets.
(a)     Frequency of Inspection. Before each use, portable cord-
and  plug-connected  equipment  shall  be  visually  inspected  for
external  defects  (such  as  loose  parts  or  deformed  and  missing
pins)  and  for  evidence  of  possible  internal  damage  (such  as  a
pinched or crushed outer jacket).
Exception: Stationary cord- and plug-connected equipment that remain
connected once they are put in place and are installed such that the cord
and  plug  are  not  subject  to  physical  damage  during  normal  use  shall
not  be  required  to  be  visually  inspected  until  they  are  relocated  or
repaired.
(b)     Defective Equipment. If there is a defect or evidence of
damage that might expose an employee to injury, the defective
or damaged item shall be removed from service. No employee
shall  use  it  until  a  person(s)  qualified  to  perform  the  repairs
and tests necessary to render the equipment safe has done so.
(c)     Proper  Mating.  When  an  attachment  plug  is  to  be
connected  to  a  receptacle,  the  relationship  of  the  plug  and
receptacle  contacts  shall  first  be  checked  to  ensure  that  they
are of mating configurations.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 120 — ESTABLISHING AN ELECTRICALLY SAFE WORK CONDITION
110.9
70E–20
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Δ(D) Conductive  or  Wet  Work  Locations.  Portable  cord-and-
plug-connected  electric  equipment  used  in  conductive  or  wet
work  locations  shall  be  approved  for  use  in  those  locations.  In
work  locations  where  employees  are  likely  to  contact  or  be
drenched with water or conductive liquids, ground-fault circuit-
interrupter protection for personnel shall be used.
Informational  Note:  The  risk  assessment  procedure  can  also
include  identifying  when  the  use  of  portable  tools  and  equip‐
ment powered by sources other than 120 volts ac, such as batter‐
ies, air, and hydraulics, should be used to minimize the potential
for injury from electrical hazards for tasks performed in conduc‐
tive or wet locations.
(E)  Connecting Attachment Plugs.
(a)     Employees’  hands  shall  not  be  wet  when  plugging
and  unplugging  flexible  cords  and  cord-  and  plug-connected
equipment if energized equipment is involved.
(b)     Energized  plug  and  receptacle  connections  shall  be
handled only with insulating protective equipment if the condi‐
tion of the connection could provide a conductive path to the
employee’s  hand  (e.g,  if  a  cord  connector  is  wet  from  being
immersed in water).
(c)     Locking-type   connectors   shall   be   secured   after
connection.
(F) Manufacturer's  Instructions.  Portable  equipment  shall  be
used  in  accordance  with  the  manufacturer's  instructions  and
safety warnings.
110.10  Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupter (GFCI) Protection.
(A)  General.  Employees  shall  be  provided  with  ground-fault
circuit-interrupter  (GFCI)  protection  where  required  by  appli‐
cable  state,  federal,  or  local  codes  and  standards.  Listed  cord
sets or devices incorporating listed GFCI protection for person‐
nel identified for portable use shall be permitted.
(B) Maintenance  and  Construction.  GFCI  protection  shall  be
provided  where  an  employee  is  operating  or  using  cord  sets
(extension cords) or cord- and plug-connected tools related to
maintenance and construction activity supplied by 125-volt, 15-,
20-,  or  30-ampere  circuits.  Where  employees  operate  or  use
equipment   supplied   by   greater   than   125-volt,   15-,   20-,   or
30-ampere  circuits,  GFCI  protection  or  an  assured  equipment
grounding conductor program shall be implemented.
Informational  Note:  Where  an  assured  equipment  grounding
conductor  program  is  used,  a  special  purpose  ground-fault
circuit interrupter may provide additional protection. See Infor‐
mative Annex O.
(C)  Outdoors.  GFCI  protection  shall  be  provided  when  an
employee  is  outdoors  and  operating  or  using  cord  sets  (exten‐
sion  cords)  or  cord-  and  plug-connected  equipment  supplied
by  125-volt,  15-,  20-,  or  30-ampere  circuits.  Where  employees
working   outdoors   operate   or   use   equipment   supplied   by
greater  than  125-volt,  15-,  20-,  or  30-ampere  circuits,  GFCI
protection  or  an  assured  equipment  grounding  conductor
program shall be implemented.
Informational  Note:  Where  an  assured  equipment  grounding
conductor  program  is  used,  a  special  purpose  ground-fault
circuit interrupter may provide additional protection. See Infor‐
mative Annex O.
(D) Testing  Ground-Fault  Circuit-Interrupter  Protection  Devi‐
ces.  GFCI protection devices shall be tested in accordance with
the manufacturer’s instructions.
110.11 Overcurrent     Protection     Modification.  Overcurrent
protection  of  circuits  and  conductors  shall  not  be  modified,
even  on  a  temporary  basis,  beyond  what  is  permitted  by  appli‐
cable  portions  of  electrical  codes  and  standards  dealing  with
overcurrent protection.
Informational Note: For further information concerning electri‐
cal  codes  and  standards  dealing  with  overcurrent  protection,
refer to Article 240 of NFPA
 70, National Electrical Code.
N110.12 Equipment  Use.  Equipment  shall  be  used  in  accord‐
ance with the manufacturer's instructions.
ARTICLE 120
Establishing an Electrically Safe Work
Condition
120.1  Lockout/Tagout Program.
(A)  General.  Each  employer  shall  establish,  document,  and
implement   a   lockout/tagout   program.   The   lockout/tagout
program  shall  specify  lockout/tagout  procedures  to  safeguard
workers  from  exposure  to  electrical  hazards.  The  lockout/
tagout  program  and  procedures  shall  also  incorporate  the
following:
(1)Be applicable to the experience and training of the work‐
ers and conditions in the workplace
(2)Meet the requirements of Article 120
(3)Apply  to  fixed,  permanently  installed  equipment,  tempo‐
rarily installed equipment, and portable equipment
(B) Employer  Responsibilities.  The  employer  shall  be  respon‐
sible for the following:
(1)Providing  the  equipment  necessary  to  execute  lockout/
tagout procedures
(2)Providing  lockout/tagout  training  to  workers  in  accord‐
ance with 110.6(B)
(3)Auditing the lockout/tagout program in accordance with
110.5(M)(3)
(4)Auditing  execution  of  the  lockout/tagout  procedures  in
accordance with 110.5(M)(3)
Informational   Note:   For   an   example   of   a   lockout/tagout
program, see Informative Annex G.
120.2  Lockout/Tagout Principles.
(A) Employee    Involvement.  Each    person    who    could    be
exposed  directly  or  indirectly  to  a  source  of  electrical  energy
shall be involved in the lockout/tagout procedure.
Informational Note: An example of direct exposure is the quali‐
fied  electrician  who  works  on  the  motor  starter  control,  the
power circuits, or the motor. An example of indirect exposure is
the  person  who  works  on  the  coupling  between  the  motor  and
compressor.
(B) Lockout/Tagout  Procedure.  A  lockout/tagout  procedure
shall be developed on the basis of the existing electrical equip‐
ment  and  system  and  shall  use  suitable  documentation  includ‐
ing  up-to-date  drawings  and  diagrams.
  The  procedure  shall
meet  the  requirements  of  applicable  codes,  standards,  and
regulations for lockout and tagging of electrical sources.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 120 — ESTABLISHING AN ELECTRICALLY SAFE WORK CONDITION
120.4
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–21
(C) Control of Energy.  All sources of electrical energy shall be
controlled in such a way as to minimize employee exposure to
electrical hazards.
(D) Electrical   Circuit   Interlocks.  Documentation,   including
up-to-date  drawings  and  diagrams,  shall  be  reviewed  to  ensure
that  no  electrical  circuit  interlock  operation  can  result  in  re-
energizing the circuit being worked on.
(E) Control  Devices.  Locks/tags  shall  be  installed  only  on
circuit  disconnecting  means.  Control  devices,  such  as  push-
buttons  or  selector  switches,  shall  not  be  used  as  the  primary
isolating device.
(F) Identification.  The  lockout/tagout  device  shall  be  unique
and readily identifiable as a lockout/tagout device.
(G)  Coordination.  The following items are necessary for coor‐
dinating the lockout/tagout procedure:
(1)The  electrical  lockout/tagout  procedure  shall  be  coordi‐
nated with all other employer’s procedures for control of
exposure   to   electrical   energy   sources   such   that   all
employer’s    procedural    requirements    are    adequately
addressed on a site basis.
(2)The   procedure   for   control   of   exposure   to   electrical
hazards  shall  be  coordinated  with  other  procedures  for
control  of  other  hazardous  energy  based  on  similar  or
identical concepts.
(3)Electrical lockout/tagout devices shall be permitted to be
similar  to  lockout/tagout  devices  for  control  of  other
hazardous  energy  sources,  such  as  pneumatic,  hydraulic,
thermal, and mechanical, if such devices are used only for
control of hazardous energy and for no other purpose.
(H) Forms  of  Control  of  Hazardous  Electrical  Energy.  Two
forms of hazardous electrical energy control shall be permitted:
simple lockout/tagout and complex lockout/tagout [see 120.4].
For the simple lockout/tagout, the qualified person shall be in
charge. For the complex lockout/tagout, the person in charge
shall have overall responsibility.
120.3  Lockout/Tagout Equipment.
(A) Lock  Application.  Energy  isolation  devices  for  machinery
or  equipment  installed  after  January  2,  1990,  shall  be  capable
of accepting a lockout device.
(B) Lockout/Tagout  Device.  Each  employer  shall  supply,  and
employees  shall  use,  lockout/tagout  devices  and  equipment
necessary to execute the requirements of 120.3. Locks and tags
used  for  control  of  exposure  to  electrical  hazards  shall  be
unique,  shall  be  readily  identifiable  as  lockout/tagout  devices,
and shall be used for no other purpose.
(C) Lockout Device.  The lockout device shall meet the follow‐
ing requirements:
(1)A  lockout  device  shall  include  a  lock  —  either  keyed  or
combination.
(2)The lockout device shall include a method of identifying
the individual who installed the lockout device.
(3)A  lockout  device  shall  be  permitted  to  be  only  a  lock,  if
the lock is readily identifiable as a lockout device, in addi‐
tion  to  having  a  means  of  identifying  the  person  who
installed  the  lock,  provided  that  all  of  the  following
conditions exist:
(a)     Only   one   circuit   or   piece   of   equipment   is   de-
energized.
(b)     The lockout period does not extend beyond the work
shift.
(c)     Employees exposed to the hazards associated with re-
energizing  the  circuit  or  equipment  are  familiar  with  this
procedure.
(4)Lockout devices shall be attached to prevent operation of
the   disconnecting   means   without   resorting   to   undue
force or the use of tools.
(5)Where a tag is used in conjunction with a lockout device,
the  tag  shall  contain  a  statement  prohibiting  unauthor‐
ized  operation  of  the  disconnecting  means  or  unauthor‐
ized removal of the device.
(6)Lockout devices shall be suitable for the environment and
for the duration of the lockout.
(7)Whether keyed or combination locks are used, the key or
combination shall remain in the possession of the individ‐
ual  installing  the  lock  or  the  person  in  charge,  when
provided by the established procedure.
(D)  Tagout Device.  The tagout device shall meet the following
requirements:
(1)A  tagout  device  shall  include  a  tag  together  with  an
attachment means.
(2)The tagout device shall be readily identifiable as a tagout
device  and  suitable  for  the  environment  and  duration  of
the tagout.
(3)A  tagout  device  attachment  means  shall  be  capable  of
withstanding at least 224.4 N (50 lb) of force exerted at a
right  angle  to  the  disconnecting  means  surface.  The  tag
attachment  means  shall  be  nonreusable,  attachable  by
hand,  self-locking,  nonreleasable,  and  equal  to  an  all-
environmental tolerant nylon cable tie.
(4)Tags  shall  contain  a  statement  prohibiting  unauthorized
operation  of  the  disconnecting  means  or  removal  of  the
tag.
(5)A  hold  card  tagging  tool  on  an  overhead  conductor  in
conjunction with a hotline tool to install the tagout device
safely  on  a  disconnect  that  is  isolated  from  the  work(s)
shall be permitted. Where a hold card is used, the tagout
procedure  shall  include  the  method  of  accounting  for
personnel  who  are  working  under  the  protection  of  the
hold card. 
120.4 Lockout/Tagout  Procedures.  The  employer  shall  main‐
tain a copy of the procedures required by this section and shall
make the procedures available to all employees.
(A)  Planning.  The  procedure  shall  require  planning,  includ‐
ing the requirements of 120.4(A)(1) through 120.4(B)(14).
(1) Locating  Sources.  Up-to-date  single-line  drawings  shall  be
considered  a  primary  reference  source  for  such  information.
When up-to-date drawings are not available, the employer shall
be  responsible  for  ensuring  that  an  equally  effective  means  of
locating all sources of energy is employed.
(2) Exposed  Persons.  The  plan  shall  identify  persons  who
might be exposed to an electrical hazard and the PPE required
during the execution of the job or task.
(3) Person  in  Charge.  The  plan  shall  identify  the  person  in
charge and his or her responsibility in the lockout/tagout.
(4) Simple   Lockout/Tagout   Procedure.  All   lockout/tagout
procedures   that   involve   only   a   qualified   person(s)   de-
energizing one set of conductors or circuit part source for the
sole purpose of safeguarding employees from exposure to elec‐
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 120 — ESTABLISHING AN ELECTRICALLY SAFE WORK CONDITION
120.4
70E–22
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
trical  hazards  shall  be  considered  to  be  a  simple  lockout/
tagout.    Simple    lockout/tagout    procedures    shall    not    be
required  to  be  written  for  each  application.  Each  worker  shall
be responsible for his or her own lockout/tagout.
Exception:  Lockout/tagout  is  not  required  for  work  on  cord-  and  plug-
connected  equipment  for  which  exposure  to  the  hazards  of  unexpected
energization  of  the  equipment  is  controlled  by  the  unplugging  of  the
equipment  from  the  energy  source,  provided  that  the  plug  is  under  the
exclusive  control  of  the  employee  performing  the  servicing  and  mainte‐
nance for the duration of the work.
(5)  Complex Lockout/Tagout.
(a)     A    complex    lockout/tagout    procedure    shall    be
permitted where one or more of the following exists:
(1)Multiple energy source
(2)Multiple crews
(3)Multiple crafts
(4)Multiple locations
(5)Multiple employers
(6)Multiple disconnecting means
(7)Particular sequences
(8)Job or task that continues for more than one work period
(b)     All complex lockout/tagout procedures shall require
a written plan of execution that identifies the person in charge.
(c)     The  complex  lockout/tagout  procedure  shall  vest
primary  responsibility  in  an  authorized  employee  for  employ‐
ees working under the protection of a group lockout or tagout
device,  such  as  an  operation  lock  or  lockbox.  The  person  in
charge  shall  be  held  accountable  for  safe  execution  of  the
complex lockout/tagout.
(d)     Each authorized employee shall affix a personal lock‐
out  or  tagout  device  to  the  group  lockout  device,  group  lock‐
box,  or  comparable  mechanism  when  he  or  she  begins  work
and  shall  remove  those  devices  when  he  or  she  stops  working
on the machine or equipment being serviced or maintained.
(e)     All  complex  lockout/tagout  plans  shall  identify  the
method  to  account  for  all  persons  who  might  be  exposed  to
electrical hazards in the course of the lockout/tagout.
(B) Elements    of    Control.  The    procedure    shall    identify
elements of control.
(1) De-energizing    Equipment    (Shutdown).  The    procedure
shall  establish  the  person  who  performs  the  switching  and
where and how to de-energize the load.
(2) Stored  Energy.  The  procedure  shall  include  requirements
for  releasing  stored  electric  or  mechanical  energy  that  might
endanger  personnel.  All  capacitors  shall  be  discharged,  and
high-capacitance  elements  shall  also  be  short-circuited  and
grounded   before   the   associated   equipment   is   touched   or
worked  on.  Springs  shall  be  released  or  physical  restraint  shall
be  applied  when  necessary  to  immobilize  mechanical  equip‐
ment  and  pneumatic  and  hydraulic  pressure  reservoirs.  Other
sources of stored energy shall be blocked or otherwise relieved.
Informational  Note:  For  more  information  on  methods  and
procedures to place capacitors in an electrically safe work condi‐
tion,  see  360.3,  360.5,  and  Informative  Annex  R,  Working  with
Capacitors.
(3) Disconnecting Means.  The procedure shall identify how to
verify that the circuit is de-energized (open).
(4)  Responsibility.  The  procedure  shall  identify  the  person
who  is  responsible  for  verifying  that  the  lockout/tagout  proce‐
dure  is  implemented  and  who  is  responsible  for  ensuring  that
the  task  is  completed  prior  to  removing  locks/tags.  A  mecha‐
nism  to  accomplish  lockout/tagout  for  multiple  (complex)
jobs/tasks  where  required,  including  the  person  responsible
for coordination, shall be included.
(5) Verification.  The  procedure  shall  verify  that  equipment
cannot  be  restarted.  The  equipment  operating  controls,  such
as  push-buttons,  selector  switches,  and  electrical  interlocks,
shall  be  operated  or  otherwise  it  shall  be  verified  that  the
equipment cannot be restarted.
(6)  Testing.  The procedure shall establish the following:
(1)Test  instrument  to  be  used,  the  required  PPE,  and  the
person  who  will  use  it  to  verify  proper  operation  of  the
test  instrument  on  a  known  voltage  source  before  and
after use
(2)Requirement  to  define  the  boundary  of  the  electrically
safe work condition
(3)Requirement   to   test   before   touching   every   exposed
conductor or circuit part(s) within the defined boundary
of the work area
(4)Requirement to retest for absence of voltage when circuit
conditions change or when the job location has been left
unattended
(5)Planning considerations that include methods of verifica‐
tion  where  there  is  no  accessible  exposed  point  to  take
voltage measurements
(7)  Grounding.  Grounding  requirements  for  the  circuit  shall
be  established,  including  whether  the  temporary  protective
grounding equipment shall be installed for the duration of the
task or is temporarily established by the procedure. Grounding
needs  or  requirements  shall  be  permitted  to  be  covered  in
other  work  rules  and  might  not  be  part  of  the  lockout/tagout
procedure.
(8) Shift  Change.  A  method  shall  be  identified  in  the  proce‐
dure  to  transfer  responsibility  for  lockout/tagout  to  another
person or to the person in charge when the job or task extends
beyond one shift.
(9)  Coordination.  The  procedure  shall  establish  how  coordi‐
nation  is  accomplished  with  other  jobs  or  tasks  in  progress,
including related jobs or tasks at remote locations as well as the
person responsible for coordination.
(10) Accountability  for  Personnel.  A  method  shall  be  identi‐
fied  in  the  procedure  to  account  for  all  persons  who  could  be
exposed to hazardous energy during the lockout/tagout.
(11) Lockout/Tagout Application.  The procedure shall clearly
identify  when  and  where  lockout  applies,  in  addition  to  when
and where tagout applies, and shall address the following:
(1)Lockout shall be defined as installing a lockout device on
all sources of hazardous energy such that operation of the
disconnecting  means  is  prohibited,  and  forcible  removal
of  the  lock  is  required  to  operate  the  disconnecting
means.
(2)Tagout shall be defined as installing a tagout device on all
sources  of  hazardous  energy,  such  that  operation  of  the
disconnecting  means  is  prohibited.  The  tagout  device
shall  be  installed  in  the  same  position  available  for  the
lockout device.
(3)Where it is not possible to attach a lock to existing discon‐
necting  means,  the  disconnecting  means  shall  not  be
used as the only means to put the circuit in an electrically
safe work condition.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 120 — ESTABLISHING AN ELECTRICALLY SAFE WORK CONDITION
120.5
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–23
(4)The  use  of  tagout  procedures  without  a  lock  shall  be
permitted    only    in    cases    where    equipment    design
precludes the installation of a lock on an energy isolation
device(s).  When  tagout  is  employed,  at  least  one  addi‐
tional  safety  measure  shall  be  employed.  In  such  cases,
the  procedure  shall  clearly  establish  responsibilities  and
accountability  for  each  person  who  might  be  exposed  to
electrical hazards.
Informational  Note:  Examples  of  additional  safety  measures
include the removal of an isolating circuit element such as fuses,
blocking  of  the  controlling  switch,  or  opening  an  extra  discon‐
necting device to reduce the likelihood of inadvertent energiza‐
tion.
(12) Removal   of   Lockout/Tagout   Devices.  The   procedure
shall  identify  the  details  for  removing  locks  or  tags  when  the
installing  individual  is  unavailable.  When  locks  or  tags  are
removed  by  someone  other  than  the  installer,  the  employer
shall  attempt  to  locate  that  person  prior  to  removing  the  lock
or tag. When the lock or tag is removed because the installer is
unavailable,  the  installer  shall  be  informed  prior  to  returning
to work.
(13) Release for Return to Service.  The procedure shall iden‐
tify  steps  to  be  taken  when  the  job  or  task  requiring  lockout/
tagout  is  completed.  Before  electric  circuits  or  equipment  are
re-energized, tests and visual inspections shall be conducted to
verify  that  all  tools,  mechanical  restraints  and  electrical  jump‐
ers,  short  circuits,  and  temporary  protective  grounding  equip‐
ment  have  been  removed,  so  that  the  circuits  and  equipment
are in a condition to be safely energized. When applicable, the
employees  responsible  for  operating  the  machines  or  process
shall  be  notified  when  circuits  and  equipment  are  ready  to  be
energized,  and  such  employees  shall  provide  assistance  as
necessary  to  safely  energize  the  circuits  and  equipment.  The
procedure  shall  contain  a  statement  requiring  the  area  to  be
inspected   to   ensure   that   nonessential   items   have   been
removed.  One  such  step  shall  ensure  that  all  personnel  are
clear  of  exposure  to  dangerous  conditions  resulting  from  re-
energizing the service and that blocked mechanical equipment
or  grounded  equipment  is  cleared  and  prepared  for  return  to
service.
(14) Temporary  Release  for  Testing/Positioning.  The  proce‐
dure  shall  clearly  identify  the  steps  and  qualified  persons’
responsibilities  when  the  job  or  task  requiring  lockout/tagout
is  to  be  interrupted  temporarily  for  testing  or  positioning  of
equipment;  then  the  steps  shall  be  identical  to  the  steps  for
return to service.
Informational Note: See 110.8 for requirements when using test
instruments and equipment.
Δ120.5 Process  for  Establishing  and  Verifying  an  Electrically
Safe Work Condition.  Establishing and verifying an electrically
safe  work  condition  shall  include  all  of  the  following  steps,
which shall be performed in the order presented, if feasible:
(1)Determine  all  possible  sources  of  electrical  supply  to  the
specific  equipment.  Check  applicable  up-to-date  draw‐
ings, diagrams, and identification tags.
(2)After  properly  interrupting  the  load  current,  open  the
disconnecting device(s) for each source.
(3)Wherever  possible,  visually  verify  that  all  blades  of  the
disconnecting devices are fully open or that drawout-type
circuit  breakers  are  withdrawn  to  the  test  or  fully  discon‐
nected position.
(4)Release stored electrical energy.
(5)Block or relieve stored nonelectrical energy in devices to
the  extent  the  circuit  parts  cannot  be  unintentionally
energized by such devices.
(6)Apply lockout/tagout devices in accordance with a docu‐
mented and established procedure.
(7)Use  an  adequately  rated  portable  test  instrument  to  test
each  phase  conductor  or  circuit  part  to  test  for  the
absence  of  voltage.  Test  each  phase  conductor  or  circuit
part  both  phase-to-phase  and  phase-to-ground.  Before
and  after  each  test,  determine  that  the  test  instrument  is
operating satisfactorily through verification on any known
voltage source.
Exception  
No.  1  to  7:  An  adequately  rated  permanently  mounted
absence  of  voltage  tester  shall  be  permitted  to  be  used  to  test  for  the
absence of voltage of the conductors or circuit parts at the work location,
provided it meets all of the following requirements: (1) It is permanently
mounted and installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instruc‐
tions and tests the conductors and circuit parts at the point of work; (2)
It is listed and labeled for the purpose of testing for the absence of volt‐
age; (3) It tests each phase conductor or circuit part both phase-to-phase
and  phase-to-ground;  (4)  The  test  device  is  verified  as  operating  satis‐
factorily  on  any  known  voltage  source  before  and  after  testing  for  the
absence of voltage.
Exception No. 2 to 7: On electrical systems over 1000 volts, noncontact
capacitive  test  instruments  shall  be  permitted  to  be  used  to  test  each
phase conductor.
Informational Note No. 1: See UL 61010-1, Safety Requirements for
Electrical  Equipment  for  Measurement,  Control,  and  Laboratory  Use,
Part 1: General Requirements, for rating, overvoltage category, and
design  requirements  for  voltage  measurement  and  test  instru‐
ments  intended  for  use  on  electrical  systems  1000  volts  and
below.
Informational  No.  2:  For  additional  information  on  rating  and
design  requirements  for  permanently  mounted  absence  of  volt‐
age testers, refer to UL 1436, Outlet Circuit Testers and Other Simi‐
lar Indicating Devices.
Informational Note No. 3: For additional information on rating
and  design  requirements  for  voltage  detectors,  refer  to  IEC
61243-1, Live Working — Voltage Detectors — Part 1: Capacitive type
to be used for voltages exceeding 1kV a.c., or IEC 61243-2, Live Work‐
ing — Voltage Detectors — Part 2: Resistive type to be used for voltages
of 1kV to 36 kV a.c., or IEC 61243-3, Live Working — Voltage Detec‐
tors — Part 3: Two-pole low voltage type.
(8)Where  the  possibility  of  induced  voltages  or  stored  elec‐
trical  energy  exists,  ground  all  circuit  conductors  and
circuit  parts  before  touching  them.  Where  it  could  be
reasonably   anticipated   that   the   conductors   or   circuit
parts  being  de-energized  could  contact  other  exposed
energized  conductors  or  circuit  parts,  apply  temporary
protective  grounding  equipment  in  accordance  with  the
following:
a.Placement.   Temporary   protective   grounding   equip‐
ment  shall  be  placed  at  such  locations  and  arranged
in  such  a  manner  as  to  prevent  each  employee  from
being  exposed  to  a  shock  hazard  (i.e.,  hazardous
differences   in   electrical   potential).   The   location,
sizing,    and    application    of    temporary    protective
grounding  equipment  shall  be  identified  as  part  of
the employer’s job planning.
b.Capacity.  Temporary  protective  grounding  equipment
shall  be  capable  of  conducting  the  maximum  fault
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.1
70E–24
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
current  that  could  flow  at  the  point  of  grounding  for
the time necessary to clear the fault.
Informational  Note:  ASTM  F855,  Standard  Specification  for
Temporary  Protective  Grounds  to  be  Used  on  De-energized  Electric
Power  Lines  and  Equipment,  is  an  example  of  a  standard  that
contains  information  on  capacity  of  temporary  protective
grounding equipment.
c.Impedance.   Temporary   protective   grounding   equip‐
ment  and  connections  shall  have  an  impedance  low
enough  to  cause  immediate  operation  of  protective
devices in case of unintentional energizing of the elec‐
tric conductors or circuit parts.
ARTICLE 130
Work Involving Electrical Hazards
Δ130.1  General.  Article   130   covers   requirements   for   work
involving  electrical  hazards  such  as  the  electrical  safety-related
work practices, assessments, precautions, and procedures when
an electrically safe work condition cannot be established.
Safety-related   work   practices   shall   be   used   to   safeguard
employees  from  injury  while  they  are  exposed  to  electrical
hazards  from  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts  that  are  or
can become energized.
When energized electrical conductors and circuit parts oper‐
ating  at  voltages  equal  to  or  greater  than  50  volts  are  not  put
into an electrically safe work condition, and work is performed
as  permitted  in  accordance  with  110.4,  all  of  the  following
requirements shall apply:
(1)Only qualified persons shall be permitted to work on elec‐
trical  conductors  or  circuit  parts  that  have  not  been  put
into an electrically safe work condition.
(2)An energized electrical work permit shall be completed as
required by 130.2.
(3)A shock risk assessment shall be performed as required by
130.4.
(4)An   arc   flash   risk   assessment   shall   be   performed   as
required by 130.5.
All  requirements  of  Article  130  shall  apply  whether  an  inci‐
dent  energy  analysis  is  completed  or  if  Table  130.7(C)(15)(a),
Table 130.7(C)(15)(b), and Table 130.7(C)(15)(c) are used in
lieu of an incident energy analysis.
130.2  Energized Electrical Work Permit.
Δ(A) When Required.  When work is performed as permitted in
accordance  with  110.4,  an  energized  electrical  work  permit
shall  be  required  and  documented  under  any  of  the  following
conditions:
(1)When  work  is  performed  within  the  restricted  approach
boundary
(2)When  the  employee  interacts  with  the  equipment  when
conductors   or   circuit   parts   are   not   exposed   but   an
increased likelihood of injury from an exposure to an arc
flash hazard exists
(B) Elements of Work Permit.  The work permit shall include,
but not be limited to, the following items:
(1)Description  of  the  circuit  and  equipment  to  be  worked
on and their location
(2)Description of the work to be performed
(3)Justification  for  why  the  work  must  be  performed  in  an
energized condition [see 110.4]
(4)Description of the safe work practices to be employed (see
130.1)
(5)Results of the shock risk assessment [see 130.4(A)]
a.Voltage to which personnel will be exposed
b.Limited    approach    boundary    [see    130.4(F),    Table
130.4(E)(a), and Table 130.4(E)(b)]
c.Restricted   approach   boundary   [see   130.4(G),   Table
130.4(E)(a), and Table 130.4(E)(b)]
d.Personal and other protective equipment required by
this  standard  to  safely  perform  the  assigned  task  and
to  protect  against  the  shock  hazard  [see  130.4(F),
130.7(C)(1) through (C)(16), and 130.7(D)]
(6)Results of the arc flash risk assessment [see 130.5]
a.Available  incident  energy  at  the  working  distance  or
arc flash PPE category (see 130.5)
b.Personal and other protective equipment required by
this  standard  to  protect  against  the  arc  flash  hazard
[see 130.5(F), 130.7(C)(1) through (C)(16), Table 130.7(C)
(15)(c), and 130.7(D)]
c.Arc flash boundary [see 130.5(E)]
(7)Means  employed  to  restrict  the  access  of  unqualified
persons from the work area [see 130.7(E)]
(8)Evidence  of  completion  of  a  job  briefing,  including  a
discussion of any job-specific hazards [see 110.5(I)]
(9)Energized   work   approval   (authorizing   or   responsible
management, safety officer, or owner, etc.) signature(s)
Informational Note: For an example of an acceptable
energized work permit, see Figure J.1.
Δ(C) Exemptions   to   Work   Permit.  Electrical   work   shall   be
permitted  without  an  energized  electrical  work  permit  if  a
qualified  person  is  provided  with  and  uses  appropriate  safe
work  practices  and  PPE  in  accordance  with  Chapter  1  under
any of the following conditions:
(1)Testing, troubleshooting, or voltage measuring
(2)Thermography,  ultrasound,  or  visual  inspections  if  the
restricted approach boundary is not crossed
(3)Access  to  and  egress  from  an  area  with  energized  electri‐
cal equipment if no electrical work is performed and the
restricted approach boundary is not crossed
(4)General  housekeeping  and  miscellaneous  non-electrical
tasks if the restricted approach boundary is not crossed
•
130.4  Shock Risk Assessment.
(A)  General.  A shock risk assessment shall be performed:
(1)To identify shock hazards
(2)To  estimate  the  likelihood  of  occurrence  of  injury  or
damage  to  health  and  the  potential  severity  of  injury  or
damage to health
(3)To   determine   if   additional   protective   measures   are
required, including the use of PPE
N(B)  Estimate of Likelihood and Severity.  The estimate of likeli‐
hood  of  occurrence  of  injury  or  damage  to  health  and  the
potential  severity  of  injury  or  damage  to  health  shall  take  into
consideration all of the following:
(1)The design of the electrical equipment
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.4
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–25
(2)The  electrical  equipment  operating  condition  and  the
condition of maintenance
(C) Additional  Protective  Measures.  If  additional  protective
measures are required, they shall be selected and implemented
according   to   the   hierarchy   of   risk   control   identified   in
110.5(H)(3). When the additional protective measures include
the use of PPE, the following shall be determined:
(1)The voltage to which personnel will be exposed
(2)The boundary requirements
(3)The  personal  and  other  protective  equipment  required
by this standard to protect against the shock hazard
(D)  Documentation.  The  results  of  the  shock  risk  assessment
shall be documented.
(E) Shock Protection Boundaries.  The shock protection boun‐
daries  identified  as  limited  approach  boundary  and  restricted
approach  boundary  shall  be  applicable  where  personnel  are
approaching exposed energized electrical conductors or circuit
parts.  Table  130.4(E)(a)  shall  be  used  for  the  distances  associ‐
ated with various ac system voltages. Table 130.4(E)(b) shall be
used   for   the   distances   associated   with   various   dc   system
voltages.
Informational Note: In certain instances, the arc flash boundary
might   be   a   greater   distance   from   the   energized   electrical
conductors or circuit parts than the limited approach boundary.
The  shock  protection  boundaries  and  the  arc  flash  boundary
are independent of each other.
(F)  Limited Approach Boundary.
(1) Approach  by  Unqualified  Persons.  Unless  permitted  by
130.4(F)(3),   no   unqualified   person   shall   be   permitted   to
approach nearer than the limited approach boundary of ener‐
gized conductors and circuit parts.
(2) Working  at  or  Close  to  the  Limited  Approach  Boundary.
Where one or more unqualified persons are working at or close
to  the  limited  approach  boundary,  the  alerting  methods  in
130.7(E) shall be applied to advise the unqualified person(s) of
the electrical hazard and warn him or her to stay outside of the
limited approach boundary.
(3) Entering  the  Limited  Approach  Boundary.  Where  there  is
a  need  for  an  unqualified  person(s)  to  cross  the  limited
approach boundary, a qualified person shall advise the unquali‐
fied  person(s)  of  the  possible  hazards  and  continuously  escort
the  unqualified  person(s)  while  inside  the  limited  approach
boundary.  Under  no  circumstance  shall  unqualified  person(s)
be permitted to cross the restricted approach boundary.
(G) Restricted  Approach  Boundary.  No  qualified  person  shall
approach or take any conductive object closer to exposed ener‐
gized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts  than  the  restricted
approach  boundary  set  forth  in  Table  130.4(E)(a)  and  Table
130.4(E)(b), unless one of the following conditions applies:
(1)The  qualified  person  is  insulated  or  guarded  from  ener‐
gized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts  operating  at
50 volts or more. Insulating gloves and sleeves are consid‐
ered  insulation  only  with  regard  to  the  energized  parts
upon which work is performed.
(2)The  energized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts  are
insulated  from  the  qualified  person  and  from  any  other
conductive object at a different potential.
Δ
Table 130.4(E)(a)  Shock Protection Approach Boundaries to Exposed Energized Electrical Conductors or Circuit Parts for
Alternating-Current Systems
(1)(2)(3)(4)
 
Limited Approach Boundary
b
Restricted Approach Boundary
b
;
Includes Inadvertent Movement Adder
Nominal System Voltage
Range, Phase to Phase
a
Exposed Movable Conductor
c
Exposed Fixed Circuit Part
Less than 50 VNot specifiedNot specifiedNot specified
50 V–150 V
d
3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.0 m (3 ft 6 in.)Avoid contact
151 V–750 V3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.0 m (3 ft 6 in.)0.3 m (1 ft 0 in.)
751 V–15 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.5 m (5 ft 0 in.)0.7 m (2 ft 2 in.)
15.1 kV–36 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.8 m (6 ft 0 in.)0.8 m (2 ft 9 in.)
36.1 kV–46 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)2.5 m (8 ft 0 in.)0.8 m (2 ft 9 in.)
46.1 kV–72.5 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)2.5 m (8 ft 0 in.)1.0 m (3 ft 6 in.)
72.6 kV–121 kV3.3 m (10 ft 8 in.)2.5 m (8 ft 0 in.)1.0 m (3 ft 6 in.)
138 kV–145 kV3.4 m (11 ft 0 in.)3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.2 m (3 ft 10 in.)
161 kV–169 kV3.6 m (11 ft 8 in.)3.6 m (11 ft 8 in.)1.3 m (4 ft 3 in.)
230 kV–242 kV4.0 m (13 ft 0 in.)4.0 m (13 ft 0 in.)1.7 m (5 ft 8 in.)
345 kV–362 kV4.7 m (15 ft 4 in.)4.7 m (15 ft 4 in.)2.8 m (9 ft 2 in.)
500 kV–550 kV5.8 m (19 ft 0 in.)5.8 m (19 ft 0 in.)3.6 m (11 ft 8 in.)
765 kV–800 kV7.2 m (23 ft 9 in.)7.2 m (23 ft 9 in.)4.9 m (15 ft 11 in.)
Notes:
(1) For arc flash boundary, see 130.5(E).
(2) All dimensions are distance from exposed energized electrical conductors or circuit part to employee.
a
For single-phase systems above 250 volts, select the range that is equal to the system’s maximum phase-to-ground voltage multiplied by 1.732.
b
See definition in Article 100 and text in 130.4(D)(2) and Informative Annex C for elaboration.
c
Exposed movable conductors describes a condition in which the distance between the conductor and a person is not under the control of the person.
The term is normally applied to overhead line conductors supported by poles.
d
This includes circuits where the exposure does not exceed 120 volts nominal.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.5
70E–26
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
130.5  Arc Flash Risk Assessment.
(A)  General.  An arc flash risk assessment shall be performed:
(1)To identify arc flash hazards
(2)To  estimate  the  likelihood  of  occurrence  of  injury  or
damage  to  health  and  the  potential  severity  of  injury  or
damage to health
(3)To   determine   if   additional   protective   measures   are
required, including the use of PPE
(B) Estimate  of  Likelihood  and  Severity.  The  estimate  of  the
likelihood of occurrence of injury or damage to health and the
potential  severity  of  injury  or  damage  to  health  shall  take  into
consideration the following:
(1)The  design  of  the  electrical  equipment,  including  its
overcurrent protective device and its operating time
(2)The electrical equipment operating condition and condi‐
tion of maintenance
Δ(C) Additional  Protective  Measures.  If  additional  protective
measures are required they shall be selected and implemented
according   to   the   hierarchy   of   risk   control   identified   in
110.5(H)(3). When the additional protective measures include
the use of PPE, the following shall be determined:
(1)Appropriate safety-related work practices
(2)The arc flash boundary
(3)The PPE to be used within the arc flash boundary
Table 130.5(C) shall be permitted to be used to estimate the
likelihood  of  occurrence  of  an  arc  flash  event  to  determine  if
additional protective measures are required.
(D)  Documentation.  The  results  of  the  arc  flash  risk  assess‐
ment shall be documented.
(E)  Arc Flash Boundary.
(1)  The  arc  flash  boundary  shall  be  the  distance  at  which  the
incident energy equals 1.2 cal/cm
2
 (5 J/cm
2
).
Informational Note: For information on estimating the arc flash
boundary, see Informative Annex D.
(2)  The  arc  flash  boundary  shall  be  permitted  to  be  deter‐
mined  by  Table  130.7(C)(15)(a)  or  Table  130.7(C)(15)(b)
when the requirements of these tables apply.
(F) Arc  Flash  PPE.  One  of  the  following  methods  shall  be
used for the selection of arc flash PPE:
(1)The  incident  energy  analysis  method  in  accordance  with
130.5(G)
(2)The  arc  flash  PPE  category  method  in  accordance  with
130.7(C)(15)
Either, but not both, methods shall be permitted to be used
on  the  same  piece  of  equipment.  The  results  of  an  incident
energy  analysis  to  specify  an  arc  flash  PPE  category  in  Table
130.7(C)(15)(c) shall not be permitted.
(G) Incident  Energy  Analysis  Method.  The  incident  energy
exposure  level  shall  be  based  on  the  working  distance  of  the
employee’s  face  and  chest  areas  from  a  prospective  arc  source
for  the  specific  task  to  be  performed.  Arc-rated  clothing  and
other PPE shall be used by the employee based on the incident
energy  exposure  associated  with  the  specific  task.  Recognizing
that incident energy increases as the distance from the arc flash
decreases,  additional  PPE  shall  be  used  for  any  parts  of  the
body  that  are  closer  than  the  working  distance  at  which  the
incident energy was determined.
The  incident  energy  analysis  shall  take  into  consideration
the  characteristics  of  the  overcurrent  protective  device  and  its
fault clearing time, including its condition of maintenance.
The incident energy analysis shall be updated when changes
occur in the electrical distribution system that could affect the
results of the analysis. The incident energy analysis shall also be
reviewed for accuracy at intervals not to exceed 5 years.
Table  130.5(G)  identifies  the  arc-rated  clothing  and  other
PPE  requirements  of  Article  130  and  shall  be  permitted  to  be
used  with  the  incident  energy  analysis  method  of  selecting  arc
flash PPE.
Informational Note: For information on estimating the incident
energy,  see  Informative  Annex  D.  For  information  on  selection
of arc-rated clothing and other PPE, see Informative Annex H.
Table 130.4(E)(b)  Shock Protection Approach Boundaries to Exposed Energized Electrical Conductors or Circuit Parts for Direct-
Current Voltage Systems
(1)
(2)(3)
(4)
Nominal Potential Difference
Limited Approach Boundary
Restricted Approach Boundary; Includes
Inadvertent Movement Adder
Exposed Movable Conductor*Exposed Fixed Circuit Part
Less than 50 VNot specifiedNot specifiedNot specified
50 V–300 V3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.0 m (3 ft 6 in.)Avoid contact
301 V–1 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.0 m (3 ft 6 in.)0.3 m (1 ft 0 in.)
1.1 kV–5 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.5 m (5 ft 0 in.)0.5 m (1 ft 5 in.)
5 kV–15 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.5 m (5 ft 0 in.)0.7 m (2 ft 2 in.)
15.1 kV–45 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)2.5 m (8 ft 0 in.)0.8 m (2 ft 9 in.)
45.1 kV– 75 kV3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)2.5 m (8 ft 0 in.)1.0 m (3 ft 6 in.)
75.1 kV–150 kV3.3 m (10 ft 8 in.)3.0 m (10 ft 0 in.)1.2 m (3 ft 10 in.)
150.1 kV–250 kV3.6 m (11 ft 8 in.)3.6 m (11 ft 8 in.)1.6 m (5 ft 3 in.)
250.1 kV–500 kV6.0 m (20 ft 0 in.)6.0 m (20 ft 0 in.)3.5 m (11 ft 6 in.)
500.1 kV–800 kV8.0 m (26 ft 0 in.)8.0 m (26 ft 0 in.)5.0 m (16 ft 5 in.)
Note: All dimensions are distance from exposed energized electrical conductors or circuit parts to worker.
*Exposed movable conductor describes a condition in which the distance between the conductor and a person is not under the control of the person.
The term is normally applied to overhead line conductors supported by poles.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.5
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–27
Δ
Table 130.5(C)  Estimate of the Likelihood of Occurrence of an Arc Flash Incident for ac and dc
Systems
Task
Equipment
Condition
a
Likelihood of
Occurrence
b
Reading a panel meter while operating a meter switch.AnyNo
Performing infrared thermography and other non-contact 
inspections outside the restricted approach boundary. This activity 
does not include opening of doors or covers.
Working on control circuits with exposed energized electrical 
conductors and circuit parts, nominal 125 volts ac or dc, or below 
without any other exposed energized equipment over nominal 
125 volts ac or dc, including opening of hinged covers to gain 
access.
Examination of insulated cable with no manipulation of cable.
For dc systems, maintenance on a single cell of a battery system or 
multi-cell units in an open rack.
For ac systems, work on energized electrical conductors and circuit 
parts, including electrical testing.
AnyYes
Operation of a CB or switch the first time after installation or 
completion of maintenance in the equipment.
For dc systems, working on energized electrical conductors and 
circuit parts of series-connected battery cells, including electrical 
testing.
Removal or installation of CBs or switches.
Opening hinged door(s) or cover(s) or removal of bolted covers (to 
expose bare, energized electrical conductors and circuit parts). For 
dc systems, this includes bolted covers, such as battery terminal 
covers.
Application of temporary protective grounding equipment, after 
voltage test.
Working on control circuits with exposed energized electrical 
conductors and circuit parts, greater than 120 volts.
Insertion or removal of individual starter buckets from motor control 
center (MCC).
Insertion or removal (racking) of circuit breakers (CBs) or starters 
from cubicles, doors open or closed.
Insertion or removal of plug-in devices into or from busways.
Examination of insulated cable with manipulation of cable.
Working on exposed energized electrical conductors and circuit parts 
of equipment directly supplied by a panelboard or motor control 
center.
Insertion or removal of revenue meters (kW-hour, at primary voltage 
and current).
Insertion or removal of covers for battery intercell connector(s).
For dc systems, working on exposed energized electrical conductors 
and circuit parts of utilization equipment directly supplied by a dc 
source.
Opening voltage transformer or control power transformer 
compartments.
Operation of outdoor disconnect switch (hookstick operated) at 1 kV 
through 15 kV.
Operation of outdoor disconnect switch (gang-operated, from grade) 
at 1 kV through 15 kV.
Operation of a CB, switch, contactor, or starter.NormalNo
Voltage testing on individual battery cells or individual multi-cell units.
Removal or installation of covers for equipment such as wireways, 
junction boxes, and cable trays that does not expose bare, 
energized electrical conductors and circuit parts.
Opening a panelboard hinged door or cover to access dead front 
overcurrent devices.
Removal of battery nonconductive intercell connector covers.
(continues)
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.5
70E–28
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Δ
Table 130.5(C)     Continued
Task
Equipment
Condition
a
Likelihood of
Occurrence
b
Maintenance and testing on individual battery cells or individual 
multi-cell units in an open rack
AbnormalYes
Insertion or removal of individual cells or multi-cell units of a battery 
system in an open rack.
Arc-resistant equipment with the DOORS CLOSED and SECURED, 
and where the available fault current and fault clearing time does 
not exceed that of the arc-resistant rating of the equipment in one 
of the following conditions:
(1) Insertion or removal of individual starter buckets
(2) Insertion or removal (racking) of CBs from cubicles
(3) Insertion or removal (racking) of ground and test device
(4) Insertion or removal (racking) of voltage transformers on or off 
the bus
a
Equipment is considered to be in a “normal operating condition” if all of the conditions in 110.4(D) are
satisfied.
b
As defined in this standard, the two components of risk are the likelihood of occurrence of injury or damage
to health and the severity of injury or damage to health that results from a hazard. Risk assessment is an overall
process that involves estimating both the likelihood of occurrence and severity to determine if additional
protective measures are required. The estimate of the likelihood of occurrence contained in this table does
not cover every possible condition or situation, nor does it address severity of injury or damage to health.
Where this table identifies “No” as an estimate of likelihood of occurrence, it means that an arc flash incident
is not likely to occur. Where this table identifies “Yes” as an estimate of likelihood of occurrence, it means an
arc flash incident should be considered likely to occur. The likelihood of occurrence must be combined with
the potential severity of the arcing incident to determine if additional protective measures are required to be
selected and implemented according to the hierarchy of risk control identified in 110.5(H)(3).
Informational Note No. 1: An example of a standard that provides information for arc-resistant
equipment referred to in Table 130.5(C) is IEEE C37.20.7, Guide for Testing Switchgear Rated Up to 52 kV
for Internal Arcing Faults.
Informational Note No. 2: Improper or inadequate maintenance can result in increased fault clearing
time of the overcurrent protective device, thus increasing the incident energy. Where equipment is not
properly installed or maintained, PPE selection based on incident energy analysis or the PPE category
method might not provide adequate protection from arc flash hazards.
Informational Note No. 3: Both larger and smaller available fault currents could result in higher
incident energy. If the available fault current increases without a decrease in the fault clearing time of
the overcurrent protective device, the incident energy will increase. If the available fault current
decreases, resulting in a longer fault clearing time for the overcurrent protective device, incident
energy could also increase.
Informational Note No. 4: The occurrence of an arcing fault inside an enclosure produces a variety of
physical phenomena very different from a bolted fault. For example, the arc energy resulting from an
arc developed in the air will cause a sudden pressure increase and localized overheating. Equipment
and design practices are available to minimize the energy levels and the number of procedures that
could expose an employee to high levels of incident energy. Proven designs such as arc-resistant
switchgear, remote racking (insertion or removal), remote opening and closing of switching devices,
high-resistance grounding of low-voltage and 5000-volt (nominal) systems, current limitation, and
specification of covered bus or covered conductors within equipment are available to reduce the risk
associated with an arc flash incident. See Informative Annex O for safety-related design requirements.
Informational Note No. 5: For additional direction for performing maintenance on overcurrent
protective devices, see Chapter 2, Safety-Related Maintenance Requirements.
Informational Note No. 6: See IEEE 1584, Guide for Performing Arc Flash Hazard Calculations, for more
information regarding incident energy and the arc flash boundary for three-phase systems.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.5
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–29
(H) Equipment Labeling.  Electrical equipment such as switch‐
boards,  panelboards,  industrial  control  panels,  meter  socket
enclosures,  and  motor  control  centers  that  are  in  other  than
dwelling  units  and  that  are  likely  to  require  examination,
adjustment, servicing, or maintenance while energized shall be
marked with a label containing all the following information:
(1)Nominal system voltage
(2)Arc flash boundary
(3)At least one of the following:
a.Available   incident   energy   and   the   corresponding
working  distance,  or  the  arc  flash  PPE  category  in
Table  130.7(C)(15)(a)  or  Table  130.7(C)(15)(b)  for
the equipment, but not both
b.Minimum arc rating of clothing
c.Site-specific level of PPE
Exception  No.  1:  Unless  changes  in  electrical  distribution  system(s)
render  the  label  inaccurate,  labels  applied  prior  to  the  effective  date  of
this edition of the standard shall be acceptable if they complied with the
requirements for equipment labeling in the standard in effect at the time
the labels were applied.
Exception  No.  2:  In  supervised  industrial  installations  where  condi‐
tions  of  maintenance  and  engineering  supervision  ensure  that  only
qualified  persons  monitor  and  service  the  system,  the  information
required in 130.5(H)(1) through 130.5(H)(3) shall be permitted to be
documented  in  a  manner  that  is  readily  available  to  persons  likely  to
perform  examination,  servicing,  maintenance,  and  operation  of  the
equipment while energized.
The method of calculating and the data to support the infor‐
mation  for  the  label  shall  be  documented.  The  data  shall  be
reviewed for accuracy at intervals not to exceed 5 years. Where
the review of the data identifies a change that renders the label
inaccurate, the label shall be updated.
The  owner  of  the  electrical  equipment  shall  be  responsible
for  the  documentation,  installation,  and  maintenance  of  the
marked label.
Δ
Table 130.5(G)  Selection of Arc-Rated Clothing and Other PPE When the Incident Energy
Analysis Method Is Used
Incident energy exposures equal to 1.2 cal/cm
2
 up to and including 12 cal/cm
2
Arc-rated clothing with an arc rating equal to or greater than the estimated incident energy
a
Arc-rated long-sleeve shirt and pants or arc-rated coverall or arc flash suit (SR)
Arc-rated face shield and arc-rated balaclava or arc flash suit hood (SR)
b
Arc-rated outerwear (e.g., jacket, parka, rainwear, hard hat liner, high-visibility apparel) (AN)
e
Heavy-duty leather gloves, arc-rated gloves, or rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors (SR)
c
Hard hat
Safety glasses or safety goggles (SR)
Hearing protection
Leather footwear
d
Incident energy exposures greater than 12 cal/cm
2
Arc-rated clothing with an arc rating equal to or greater than the estimated incident energy
a
Arc-rated long-sleeve shirt and pants or arc-rated coverall or arc flash suit (SR)
Arc-rated arc flash suit hood
Arc-rated outerwear (e.g., jacket, parka, rainwear, hard hat liner, high-visibility apparel) (AN)
e
Arc-rated gloves or rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors (SR)
c
Hard hat
Safety glasses or safety goggles (SR)
Hearing protection
Leather footwear
d
SR: Selection of one in group is required.
AN: As needed.
a
Arc ratings can be for a single layer, such as an arc-rated shirt and pants or a coverall, or for an arc flash suit or
a multi-layer system if tested as a combination consisting of an arc-rated shirt and pants, coverall, and arc flash
suit.
b
Face shields with a wrap-around guarding to protect the face, chin, forehead, ears, and neck area are required
by 130.7(C)(10)(c). Where the back of the head is inside the arc flash boundary, a balaclava or an arc flash
hood shall be required for full head and neck protection.
c
Rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors provide arc flash protection in addition to shock protection.
Higher class rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors, due to their increased material thickness,
provide increased arc flash protection.
d
Footwear other than leather or dielectric shall be permitted to be used provided it has been tested to
demonstrate no ignition, melting, or dripping at the estimated incident energy exposure.
e
The arc rating of outer layers worn over arc-rated clothing as protection from the elements or for other safety
purposes, and that are not used as part of a layered system, shall not be required to be equal to or greater than
the estimated incident energy exposure.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.7
70E–30
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
130.7  Personal and Other Protective Equipment.
(A)  General.  Employees  exposed  to  electrical  hazards  when
the  risk  associated  with  that  hazard  is  not  adequately  reduced
by  the  applicable  electrical  installation  requirements  shall  be
provided  with,  and  shall  use,  protective  equipment  that  is
designed and constructed for the specific part of the body to be
protected and for the work to be performed.
Informational  Note:  The  PPE  requirements  of  130.7  are  inten‐
ded to protect a person from arc flash and shock hazards. While
some  situations  could  result  in  burns  to  the  skin,  even  with  the
protection selected, burn injury should be reduced and surviva‐
ble.  Due  to  the  explosive  effect  of  some  arc  events,  physical
trauma injuries could occur. The PPE requirements of 130.7 do
not address protection against physical trauma other than expo‐
sure to the thermal effects of an arc flash.
(B) Care  of  Equipment.  Protective  equipment  shall  be  main‐
tained  in  a  safe,  clean,  and  reliable  condition  and  in  accord‐
ance    with    manufacturers’    instructions.    The    protective
equipment  shall  be  visually  inspected  before  each  use.  Protec‐
tive equipment shall be stored in a manner to prevent damage
from  physically  damaging  conditions  and  from  moisture,  dust,
or other deteriorating agents.
Informational  Note:  Specific  requirements  for  periodic  testing
of electrical protective equipment are given in 130.7(C)(14) and
130.7(G).
(C)  Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
(1)  General.  When  an  employee  is  working  within  the  restric‐
ted  approach  boundary,  the  worker  shall  wear  PPE  in  accord‐
ance  with  130.4.  When  an  employee  is  working  within  the  arc
flash  boundary,  he  or  she  shall  wear  protective  clothing  and
other  PPE  in  accordance  with  130.5.  All  parts  of  the  body
inside the arc flash boundary shall be protected.
Informational Note: Where the estimated incident energy expo‐
sure is greater than the arc rating of commercially available arc-
rated  PPE,  then  for  the  purpose  of  testing  for  the  absence  of
voltage, the following examples of risk reduction methods could
be  used  to  reduce  the  likelihood  of  occurrence  of  an  arcing
event or the severity of exposure:
(1)
Use  noncontact  proximity  test  instrument(s)  or  measure‐
ment  of  voltage  on  the  secondary  side  of  a  low-voltage
transformer   (VT)   mounted   in   the   equipment   before
using  a  contact  test  instrument  to  test  for  the  absence  of
voltage below 1000 volts.
(2)If  equipment  design  allows,  observe  visible  gaps  between
the equipment conductors and circuit parts and the elec‐
trical source(s) of supply.
(3)Increase the working distance.
(4)Consider  system  design  options  to  reduce  the  incident
energy level.
(2) Movement  and  Visibility.  When  arc-rated  clothing  is  worn
to protect an employee, it shall cover all ignitible clothing and
shall allow for movement and visibility.
(3) Head,   Face,   Neck,   and   Chin   (Head   Area)   Protection.
Employees shall wear nonconductive head protection wherever
there  is  a  danger  of  head  injury  from  electric  shock  or  burns
due  to  contact  with  energized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit
parts or from flying objects resulting from electrical explosion.
Employees  shall  wear  nonconductive  protective  equipment  for
the  face,  neck,  and  chin  whenever  there  is  a  danger  of  injury
from exposure to electric arcs or flashes or from flying objects
resulting  from  electrical  explosion.  If  employees  use  hairnets
or beard nets, or both, these items shall be arc rated.
Informational Note: See 130.7(C)(10)(b) and (
C)(10(c) for arc
flash protective requirements.
(4) Eye  Protection.  Employees  shall  wear  protective  equip‐
ment for the eyes whenever there is danger of injury from elec‐
tric arcs, flashes, or from flying objects resulting from electrical
explosion.
(5) Hearing  Protection.  Employees  shall  wear  hearing  protec‐
tion whenever working within the arc flash boundary.
(6) Body  Protection.  Employees  shall  wear  arc-rated  clothing
wherever  there  is  possible  exposure  to  an  electric  arc  flash
above  the  threshold  incident  energy  level  for  a  second  degree
burn [1.2 cal/cm
2
 (5 J/cm
2
)].
(7) Hand and Arm Protection.  Hand and arm protection shall
be  provided  in  accordance  with  130.7(C)(7)(a),  (
C)(7)(b),
and (C)(7)(c).
(a)     Shock  Protection.  Employees  shall  wear  rubber  insulat‐
ing  gloves  with  leather  protectors  where  there  is  a  danger  of
hand  injury  from  electric  shock  due  to  contact  with  exposed
energized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts.  Employees
shall wear rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors and
rubber  insulating  sleeves  where  there  is  a  danger  of  hand  and
arm  injury  from  electric  shock  due  to  contact  with  exposed
energized electrical conductors or circuit parts. Rubber insulat‐
ing  gloves  shall  be  rated  for  the  voltage  for  which  the  gloves
will be exposed. Rubber insulating gloves shall be permitted to
be used without leather protectors, under the following condi‐
tions:
(1)There shall be no activity performed that risks cutting or
damaging the glove.
(2)The rubber insulating gloves shall be electrically retested
before reuse.
(3)The voltage rating of the rubber insulating gloves shall be
reduced by 50 percent for class 00 and by one whole class
for classes 0 through 4.
(b)     Arc Flash Protection. Hand and arm protection shall be
worn  where  there  is  possible  exposure  to  arc  flash  burn.  The
apparel  described  in  130.7(C)(10)(d)  shall  be  required  for
protection  of  hands  from  burns.  Arm  protection  shall  be
accomplished by the apparel described in 130.7(C)(6).
(c)     Maintenance  and  Use.  Electrical  protective  equipment
shall  be  maintained  in  a  safe,  reliable  condition.  Insulating
equipment shall be inspected for damage before each day’s use
and immediately following any incident that can reasonably be
suspected  of  having  caused  damage.  Insulating  gloves  shall  be
given  an  air  test,  along  with  the  inspection.  
Maximum  use
voltages  for  rubber  insulating  gloves  shall  not  exceed  that
specified  in  Table  130.7(C)(7)(a).  The  top  of  the  cuff  of  the
protector glove shall be shorter than the rolled top of the cuff
of the insulating glove by at least the distance specified in Table
130.7(C)(7)(a).
(d)     Periodic  Electrical  Tests.  Rubber  insulating  equipment
shall be subjected to periodic electrical tests. Test voltages shall
be  in  accordance  with  applicable  state,  federal,  or  local  codes
and  standards.  The  maximum  intervals  between  tests  shall  not
exceed that specified in Table 130.7(C)(7)(b).
Informational  Note:  See  OSHA  29  CFR  1910.137;  ASTM  F478,
Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Line Hose and
Covers; ASTM F479, Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insu‐
lating Blankets; and ASTM F496, Standard Specification for In-Service
Care  of  Insulating  Gloves  and  Sleeves,  which  contain  information
related to in-service and testing requirements for rubber insulat‐
ing equipment.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.7
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–31
(8) Foot   Protection.  Where   insulated   footwear   is   used   as
protection against step and touch potential, dielectric footwear
shall  be  required.  Insulated  soles  shall  not  be  used  as  primary
electrical protection.
Informational  Note:  Electrical  Hazard  footwear  meeting  ASTM
F2413, Standard Specification for Performance Requirements for Protec‐
tive  (Safety)  Toe  Cap  Footwear,  can  provide  a  secondary  source  of
electric shock protection under dry conditions.
(9) Factors  in  Selection  of  Protective  Clothing.  Clothing  and
equipment that provide worker protection from shock and arc
flash  hazards  shall  be  used.  If  arc-rated  clothing  is  required,  it
shall cover associated parts of the body as well as all flammable
apparel while allowing movement and visibility.
Clothing  and  equipment  required  for  the  degree  of  expo‐
sure  shall  be  permitted  to  be  worn  alone  or  integrated  with
flammable,  nonmelting  apparel.  Garments  that  are  not  arc
rated  shall  not  be  permitted  to  be  used  to  increase  the  arc
rating of a garment or of a clothing system.
Informational  Note:  Protective  clothing  includes  shirts,  pants,
coveralls,  jackets,  and  parkas  worn  routinely  by  workers  who,
under  normal  working  conditions,  are  exposed  to  momentary
electric  arc  and  related  thermal  hazards.  Arc-rated  rainwear
worn in inclement weather is included in this category of cloth‐
ing.
(a)     Layering. Nonmelting, flammable fiber garments shall
be permitted to be used as underlayers in conjunction with arc-
rated  garments  in  a  layered  system.  If  nonmelting,  flammable
fiber  garments  are  used  as  underlayers,  the  system  arc  rating
shall  be  sufficient  to  prevent  breakopen  of  the  innermost  arc-
rated  layer  at  the  expected  arc  exposure  incident  energy  level
to  prevent  ignition  of  flammable  underlayers.  Garments  that
are not arc rated shall not be permitted to be used to increase
the arc rating of a garment or of a clothing system.
Informational  Note:  A  typical  layering  system  might  include
cotton  underwear,  a  cotton  shirt  and  trouser,  and  an  arc-rated
coverall.  Specific  tasks  might  call  for  additional  arc-rated  layers
to achieve the required protection level.
(b)     Outer  Layers.  Garments  worn  as  outer  layers  over  arc-
rated  clothing,  such  as  jackets
,  high-visibility  apparel,  or  rain‐
wear, shall also be made from arc-rated material. The arc rating
of outer layers worn over arc-rated clothing as protection from
the elements or for other safety purposes, and that are not used
as part of a layered system, shall not be required to be equal to
or greater than the estimated incident energy exposure.
(c)     Underlayers.  Meltable  fibers  such  as  acetate,  nylon,
polyester,  polypropylene,  and  spandex  shall  not  be  permitted
in fabric underlayers.
Exception:  An  incidental  amount  of  elastic  used  on  nonmelting  fabric
underwear or socks shall be permitted.
Informational Note No. 1: Arc-rated garments (e.g., shirts, trou‐
sers,  and  coveralls)  worn  as  underlayers  that  neither  ignite  nor
melt  and  drip  in  the  course  of  an  exposure  to  electric  arc  and
related  thermal  hazards  generally  provide  a  higher  system  arc
rating than nonmelting, flammable fiber underlayers.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  Arc-rated  underwear  or  undergar‐
ments used as underlayers generally provide a higher system arc
rating  than  nonmelting,  flammable  fiber  underwear  or  under‐
garments used as underlayers.
(d)     Coverage.  Clothing  shall  cover  potentially  exposed
areas  as  completely  as  possible.  Shirt  and  coverall  sleeves  shall
be  fastened  at  the  wrists,  shirts  shall  be  tucked  into  pants,  and
shirts, coveralls, and jackets shall be closed at the neck.
(e)     Fit.  Tight-fitting  clothing  shall  be  avoided.  Loose-
fitting  clothing  provides  additional  thermal  insulation  because
of  air  spaces.  Arc-rated  apparel  shall  fit  properly  such  that  it
does not interfere with the work task.
(f)     Interference.  The  garment  selected  shall  result  in  the
least  interference  with  the  task  but  still  provide  the  necessary
protection.  The  work  method,  location,  and  task  could  influ‐
ence the protective equipment selected.
(10)  Arc Flash Protective Equipment.
(a)     Arc  Flash  Suits.  Arc  flash  suit  design  shall  permit  easy
and  rapid  removal  by  the  wearer.  The  entire  arc  flash  suit,
including the hood’s face shield, shall have an arc rating that is
suitable   for   the   arc   flash   exposure.   When   exterior   air   is
supplied  into  the  hood,  the  air  hoses  and  pump  housing  shall
be  either  covered  by  arc-rated  materials  or  constructed  of
nonmelting and nonflammable materials.
Table 130.7(C)(7)(b)  Rubber Insulating Equipment, Maximum
Test Intervals
Rubber Insulating
EquipmentWhen to Test
BlanketsBefore first issue; every 12 months 
thereafter*
CoversIf insulating value is suspect
GlovesBefore first issue; every 6 months thereafter*
Line hoseIf insulating value is suspect
SleevesBefore first issue; every 12 months 
thereafter*
*New insulating equipment is not permitted to be placed into service
unless it has been electrically tested within the previous 12 months.
Insulating equipment that has been issued for service is not new and is
required to be retested in accordance with the intervals in this table.
N
Table 130.7(C)(7)(a)  Maximum Use Voltage for Rubber Insulating Gloves
Class Designation of
Glove or Sleeve
Maximum ac Use
Voltage rms, volts
Maximum dc Use
Voltage avg, volts
Distances Between
Gauntlet and Cuff,
minimum
0050075013 mm (0.5 in.)
01,0001,50013 mm (0.5 in.)
17,50011,25025 mm (1 in.)
217,00025,50051 mm (2 in.)
326,50039,75076 mm (3 in.)
436,00054,000102 mm (4 in.)
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.7
70E–32
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
(b)     Head Protection.
(1)An  arc-rated  hood  or  an  arc-rated  balaclava  with  an  arc-
rated face shield shall be used when the back of the head
is within the arc flash boundary.
(2)An  arc-rated  hood  shall  be  used  when  the  anticipated
incident     energy     exposure     exceeds     12     cal/cm
2
(50.2 J/cm
2
).
(c)     Face  Protection.  Face  shields  shall  have  an  arc  rating
suitable  for  the  arc  flash  exposure.  Face  shields  with  a  wrap-
around guarding to protect the face, chin, forehead, ears, and
neck area shall be used. Face shields without an arc rating shall
not  be  used.  Eye  protection  (safety  glasses  or  goggles)  shall
always be worn under face shields or hoods.
Informational  Note:  Face  shields  made  with  energy-absorbing
formulations  that  can  provide  higher  levels  of  protection  from
the radiant energy of an arc flash are available, but these shields
are  tinted  and  can  reduce  visual  acuity  and  color  perception.
Additional  illumination  of  the  task  area  might  be  necessary
when these types of arc-protective face shields are used.
(d)     Hand Protection.
(1)Heavy-duty  leather  gloves  or  arc-rated  gloves  shall  be
worn where required for arc flash protection.
Informational Note: Heavy-duty leather gloves are made entirely
of leather with minimum thickness of 0.03 in. (0.7 mm) and are
unlined or lined with nonflammable, nonmelting fabrics. Heavy-
duty  leather  gloves  meeting  this  requirement  have  been  shown
to have ATPV values in excess of 10 cal/cm
2
 (41.9 J/cm
2
).
(2)Where insulating rubber gloves are used for shock protec‐
tion,  leather  protectors  shall  be  worn  over  the  rubber
gloves.
Informational  Note:  The  leather  protectors  worn  over  rubber
insulating  gloves  provide  additional  arc  flash  protection  for  the
hands for arc flash protection exposure.
(e)     Foot Protection. Leather footwear or dielectric footwear
or both provide some arc flash protection to the feet and shall
be used in all exposures greater than 4 cal/cm
2
 (16.75 J/cm
2
).
Footwear other than leather or dielectric shall be permitted to
be used provided it has been tested to demonstrate no ignition,
melting, or dripping at the estimated incident energy exposure
or  the  minimum  arc  rating  for  the  respective  arc  flash  PPE
category.
(11) Clothing Material Characteristics.  Arc-rated clothing shall
meet    the    requirements    described    in    130.7(C)(12)    and
130.7(C)(14).
Informational  Note  No.  1:  Arc-rated  materials,  such  as  flame-
retardant-treated  cotton,  meta-aramid,  para-aramid,  and  poly-
benzimidazole  (PBI)  fibers,  provide  thermal  protection.  These
materials can ignite but will not continue to burn after the igni‐
tion  source  is  removed.  Arc-rated  fabrics  can  reduce  burn  inju‐
ries during an arc flash exposure by providing a thermal barrier
between the arc flash and the wearer.
Informational   Note   No.   2:   Non-arc-rated   cotton,   polyester-
cotton blends, nylon, nylon-cotton blends, silk, rayon, and wool
fabrics  are  flammable.  Fabrics,  zipper  tapes,  and  findings  made
of these materials can ignite and continue to burn on the body,
resulting in serious burn injuries.
Informational  Note  No.  3:  Rayon  is  a  cellulose-based  (wood
pulp)  synthetic  fiber  that  is  a  flammable  but  nonmelting  mate‐
rial.
Clothing  consisting  of  fabrics,  zipper  tapes,  and  findings
made from flammable synthetic materials that melt at tempera‐
tures below 315°C (600°F), such as acetate, acrylic, nylon, poly‐
ester,  polyethylene,  polypropylene,  and  spandex,  either  alone
or in blends, shall not be used.
Informational Note: These materials melt as a result of arc flash
exposure  conditions,  form  intimate  contact  with  the  skin,  and
aggravate the burn injury.
Exception:  Fiber  blends  that  contain  materials  that  melt,  such  as
acetate, acrylic, nylon, polyester, polyethylene, polypropylene, and span‐
dex, shall be permitted if such blends in fabrics are arc rated and do not
exhibit evidence of melting and dripping during arc testing.
Informational Note: ASTM F1959/F1959M, Standard Test Method
for  Determining  the  Arc  Rating  of  Materials  for  Clothing,  and  ASTM
F1506,  Standard  Performance  Specification  for  Flame  Resistant  and
Electric  Arc  Rated  Protective  Clothing  Worn  by  Workers  Exposed  to
Flames  and  Electric  Arcs,  contain  information  on  test  methods
used to determine the arc rating of fabrics.
(12)  Clothing and Other Apparel Not Permitted.  Clothing and
other  apparel  (such  as  hard  hat  liners  and  hair  nets)  made
from materials that do not meet the requirements of 130.7(C)
(11)  regarding  melting  or  made  from  materials  that  do  not
meet  the  flammability  requirements  shall  not  be  permitted  to
be worn.
Informational  Note:  Some  flame-resistant  fabrics,  such  as  non-
flame-resistant   modacrylic   and   nondurable   flame-retardant
treatments  of  cotton,  are  not  recommended  for  industrial  elec‐
trical or utility applications.
Exception  No.  1:  Nonmelting,  flammable  (non
-arc-rated)  materials
shall  be  permitted  to  be  used  as  underlayers  to  arc-rated  clothing,  as
described in 130.7(C)(11).
Exception  No.  2:  Where  the  work  to  be  performed  inside  the  arc  flash
boundary  exposes  the  worker  to  multiple  hazards,  such  as  airborne
contaminants, and the risk assessment identifies that the level of protec‐
tion  is  adequate  to  address  the  arc  flash  hazard,  non-arc-rated  PPE
shall be permitted.
Δ(13) Care  and  Maintenance  of  Arc-Rated  Clothing  and  Arc-
Rated Arc Flash Suits.
(a)     Inspection. Arc-rated apparel shall be inspected before
each  use.  Work  clothing  or  arc  flash  suits  that  are  contamina‐
ted or damaged to the extent that their protective qualities are
impaired shall not be used. Protective items that become conta‐
minated  with  grease,  oil,  or  flammable  liquids  or  combustible
materials shall not be used.
(b)     Manufacturer’s  Instructions.  The  garment  manufactur‐
er’s instructions for care and maintenance of arc-rated apparel
shall be followed.
(c)     Storage. Arc-rated apparel shall be stored in a manner
that prevents physical damage; damage from moisture, dust, or
other  deteriorating  agents;  or  contamination  from  flammable
or combustible materials.
(d)     Cleaning, Repairing, and Affixing Items. When arc-rated
clothing   is   cleaned,   manufacturer’s   instructions   shall   be
followed.  When  arc-rated  clothing  is  repaired,  the  same  arc-
rated  materials  used  to  manufacture  the  arc-rated  clothing
shall be used to provide repairs.
Informational  Note  No.  1:  The  purpose  of  following  manufac‐
turer’s  instructions  is  to  avoid  the  loss  of  protection  and  to
remove  contaminants  such  as  hydrocarbons  and  metallic  and
disease-causing contaminants that could compromise safety.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


130.7
ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
70E–33
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  Additional  guidance  is  provided  in
ASTM F1506, Standard Performance Specification for Flame Resistant
and Electric Arc Rated Protective Clothing Worn by Workers Exposed to
Flames  and  Electric  Arcs,  when  trim,  name  tags,  logos,  or  any
combination thereof are affixed to arc-rated clothing.
Informational  Note  No.  3:  Additional  guidance  is  provided  in
ASTM  F1449,  Standard  Guide  for  Industrial  Laundering  of  Flame,
Thermal,  and  Arc  Resistant  Clothing,  and  ASTM  F2757,  Standard
Guide for Home Laundering Care and Maintenance of Flame, Thermal,
and Arc Resistant Clothing.
Δ(14)  Standards for PPE.
(a)     General.   PPE   shall   conform   to   applicable   state,
federal, or local codes and standards.
Informational   Note   No.   1:   The   standards   listed   in   Table
130.7(C)(14),  which  is  part  of  this  Informational  Note,  are
examples  of  standards  that  contain  information  on  the  care,
inspection, testing, and manufacturing of PPE.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  Non-arc-rated  or  flammable  fabrics
are  not  covered  by  any  of  the  standards  in  Table  130.7(C)(14),
Informational Note. See 130.7(C)(11) and 130.7(C)(12).
(b)     Conformity  Assessment.  All  suppliers  or  manufacturers
of PPE shall demonstrate conformity with an appropriate prod‐
uct standard by one of the following methods:
(1)Self-declaration with a Supplier’s Declaration of Conform‐
ity
(2)Self-declaration  under  a  registered  quality  management
system  and  product  testing  by  an  accredited  laboratory
and a Supplier’s Declaration of Conformity
(3)Certification  by  an  accredited  independent  third-party
certification organization
Informational Note No. 1: Examples of a process for conformity
assessment to an appropriate product standard can be found in
ANSI/ISEA  125,  American  National  Standard  for  Conformity  Assess‐
ment of Safety and Personal Protective Equipment. See   H.4
Informational  Note  No.  2:  An  example  of  a  process  to  accredit
independent   third-party   certification   organizations   is   ISO
17065,  Conformity  assessment  —  Requirements  for  bodies  certifying
products, processes, and services.
(c)     Marking.  All  suppliers  or  manufacturers  of  PPE  shall
provide the following information on the PPE, on the smallest
unit container, or contained within the manufacturer’s instruc‐
tions:
(1)Name of manufacturer
(2)Product  performance  standards  to  which  the  product
conforms
(3)Arc rating where appropriate for the equipment
(4)One or more identifiers such as model, serial number, lot
number, or traceability code
(5)Care instructions
Δ(15) Arc  Flash  PPE  Category  Method.  The  requirements  of
130.7(C)(15)  shall  apply  when  the  arc  flash  PPE  category
method is used for the selection of arc flash PPE.
(a)     Alternating Current (ac) Equipment. When the arc flash
risk  assessment  performed  in  accordance  with  130.5  indicates
that  arc  flash  PPE  is  required  and  the  arc  flash  PPE  category
method is used for the selection of PPE for ac systems in lieu of
the      incident      energy      analysis      of      130.5(G),      Table
130.7(C)(15)(a)  shall  be  used  to  determine  the  arc  flash  PPE
category.   The   estimated   maximum   available   fault   current,
maximum  fault-clearing  times,  and  minimum  working  distan‐
ces for various ac equipment types or classifications are listed in
Table  130.7(C)(15)(a).  An  incident  energy  analysis  shall  be
required in accordance with 130.5(G) for the following:
(1)Power systems with greater than the estimated maximum
available fault current
(2)Power systems with longer than the maximum fault clear‐
ing times
(3)Less than the minimum working distance
(b)     Direct  Current  (dc)  Equipment.  When  the  arc  flash  risk
assessment  performed  in  accordance  with  130.5(G)  indicates
that  arc  flash  PPE  is  required  and  the  arc  flash  PPE  category
method is used for the selection of PPE for dc systems in lieu of
the  incident  energy  analysis  of  130.5(G),  Table  130.7(C)(15)
(b) shall be used to determine the arc flash PPE category. The
estimated   maximum   available   fault   current,   maximum   arc
duration, and working distances for dc equipment are listed in
130.7(C)(15)(b). An incident energy analysis shall be required
in accordance with 130.5(G) for the following:
(1)Power systems with greater than the estimated maximum
available fault current
(2)Power  systems  with  longer  than  the  maximum  arc  dura‐
tion
(3)Less than the minimum working distance
Informational Note No.1: The arc flash PPE category of the
protective clothing and equipment is generally based on deter‐
mination of the estimated exposure level.
Informational Note No.2: In most cases, closed doors do not
provide enough protection to eliminate the need for PPE in
situations in which the state of the equipment is known to read‐
ily change (e.g., doors open or closed, rack in or rack out).
(c)     Protective   Clothing   and   Personal   Protective   Equipment
(PPE).  Once  the  arc  flash  PPE  category  has  been  identified
from  Table  130.7(C)(15)(a)  or  Table  130.7(C)(15)(b),  Table
130.7(C)(15)(c)  shall  be  used  to  determine  the  required  PPE.
Table 130.7(C)(15)(c) lists the requirements for PPE based on
arc flash PPE categories 1 through 4. This clothing and equip‐
ment  shall  be  used  when  working  within  the  arc  flash  boun‐
dary.
  The  use  of  PPE  other  than  or  in  addition  to  that  listed
shall be permitted provided it meets 130.7(C)(7).
Informational  Note  No.  1:  See  Informative  Annex  H  for  a
suggested simplified approach to ensure adequate PPE for elec‐
trical  workers  within  facilities  with  large  and  diverse  electrical
systems.
Informational Note No. 2: The PPE requirements of this section
are  intended  to  protect  a  person  from  arc  flash  hazards.  While
some  situations  could  result  in  burns  to  the  skin  even  with  the
protection   described   in   Table   130.7(C)(15)(c),   burn   injury
should be reduced and survivable. Due to the explosive effect of
some  arc  events,  physical  trauma  injuries  could  occur.  The  PPE
requirements  of  this  section  do  not  address  protection  against
physical trauma other than exposure to the thermal effects of an
arc flash.
Informational Note No. 3: The arc rating for a particular cloth‐
ing system can be obtained from the arc-rated clothing manufac‐
turer.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.7
70E–34
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Δ
Table 130.7(C)(14)  Informational Note: Standards for PPE
SubjectDocument TitleDocument Number
Clothing — Arc RatedStandard Performance Specification for Flame Resistant and 
Electric Arc Rated Protective Clothing Worn by Workers Exposed 
to Flames and Electric Arc
ASTM F1506
Standard Guide for Industrial Laundering of Flame, Thermal, and 
Arc Resistant Clothing
ASTM F1449
Standard Guide for Home Laundering Care and Maintenance of 
Flame, Thermal and Arc Resistant Clothing
ASTM F2757
Live working — Protective clothing against the thermal hazards of 
an electric arc — Part 1-1: Test methods — Method 1: 
Determination of the arc rating (ELIM, ATPV, and/or EBT) of 
clothing materials and of protective clothing using an open arc
IEC 61482–1–1
Live working — Protective clothing against the thermal hazards of 
an electric arc — Part 2: Requirements
IEC 61482–2
Aprons — InsulatingStandard Specification for Electrically Insulating ApronsASTM F2677
Eye and Face Protection — 
General
American National Standard for Occupational and Educational 
Professional Eye and Face Protection
ANSI/ISEA Z87.1
Face — Arc RatedStandard Test Method for Determining the Arc Rating and 
Standard Specification for Personal Eye or Face Protective 
Products
ASTM F2178
Fall ProtectionStandard Specification for Personal Climbing EquipmentASTM F887
Footwear — Dielectric 
Specification
Standard Specification for Dielectric FootwearASTM F1117
Footwear — Dielectric Test 
Method
Standard Test Method for Determining Dielectric Strength of 
Dielectric Footwear
ASTM F1116
Footwear — Standard 
Performance Specification
Standard Specification for Performance Requirements for 
Protective (Safety) Toe Cap Footwear
ASTM F2413
Footwear — Standard Test 
Method
Standard Test Methods for Foot ProtectionsASTM F2412
Gloves — Arc RatedStandard Test Method for Determining Arc Ratings of Hand 
Protective Products Developed and Used for Electrical Arc Flash 
Protection
ASTM F2675/F2675M
Gloves — Leather ProtectorsStandard Specification for Leather Protectors for Rubber 
Insulating Gloves and Mittens
ASTM F696
Gloves — Rubber InsulatingStandard Specification for Rubber Insulating GlovesASTM D120
Gloves and Sleeves — In-Service 
Care
Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Gloves and 
Sleeves
ASTM F496
Head Protection — Hard HatsAmerican National Standard for Head ProtectionANSI/ISEA Z89.1
Rainwear — Arc RatedStandard Specification for Arc and Flame Resistant RainwearASTM F1891
Rubber Protective Products — 
Visual Inspection
Standard Guide for Visual Inspection of Electrical Protective 
Rubber Products
ASTM F1236
Sleeves — InsulatingStandard Specification for Rubber Insulating SleevesASTM D1051
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.7
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–35
Δ
Table 130.7(C)(15)(a)  Arc Flash PPE Categories for Alternating Current (ac) Systems
Equipment
Arc Flash
PPE CategoryArc Flash Boundary
Panelboards or other equipment rated 240 volts and below1485 mm (19 in.)
Parameters: Maximum of 25 kA available fault current; maximum of 0.03 sec (2 cycles) fault clearing time; 
minimum working distance 455 mm (18 in.)
Panelboards or other equipment rated greater than 240 volts and up to 600 volts2900 mm (3 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 25 kA available fault current; maximum of 0.03 sec (2 cycles) fault clearing time; 
minimum working distance 455 mm (18 in.)
600-volt class motor control centers (MCCs)21.5 m (5 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 65 kA available fault current; maximum of 0.03 sec (2 cycles) fault clearing time; 
minimum working distance 455 mm (18 in.)
600-volt class motor control centers (MCCs)44.3 m (14 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 42 kA available fault current; maximum of 0.33 sec (20 cycles) fault clearing time; 
minimum working distance 455 mm (18 in.)
600-volt class switchgear (with power circuit breakers or fused switches) and 600-volt class switchboards46 m (20 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 35 kA available fault current; maximum of up to 0.5 sec (30 cycles) fault clearing time; 
minimum working distance 455 mm (18 in.)
Other 600-volt class (277 volts through 600 volts, nominal) equipment21.5 m (5 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 65 kA available fault current; maximum of 0.03 sec (2 cycles) fault clearing time; 
minimum working distance 455 mm (18 in.)
NEMA E2 (fused contactor) motor starters, 2.3 kV through 7.2 kV412 m (40 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 35 kA available fault current; maximum of up to 0.24 sec (15 cycles) fault clearing 
time; minimum working distance 910 mm (36 in.)
Metal-clad switchgear, 1 kV through 15 kV412 m (40 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 35 kA available fault current; maximum of up to 0.24 sec (15 cycles) fault clearing 
time; minimum working distance 910 mm (36 in.)
Metal enclosed interrupter switchgear, fused or unfused type construction, 1 kV through 15 kV412 m (40 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 35 kA available fault current; maximum of 0.24 sec (15 cycles) fault clearing time; 
minimum working distance 910 mm (36 in.)
Other equipment 1 kV through 15 kV412 m (40 ft)
Parameters: Maximum of 35 kA available fault current; maximum of up to 0.24 sec (15 cycles) fault clearing time; 
minimum working distance 910 mm (36 in.)
Arc-resistant equipment up to 600-volt classN/AN/A
Parameters: DOORS CLOSED and SECURED; with an available fault current and a fault clearing time that does 
not exceed the arc-resistant rating of the equipment*
Arc-resistant equipment 1 kV through 15 kVN/AN/A
Parameters: DOORS CLOSED and SECURED; with an available fault current and a fault clearing time that does 
not exceed the arc-resistant rating of the equipment*
N/A: Not applicable
Note:
For equipment rated 600 volts and below and protected by upstream current-limiting fuses or current-limiting molded case circuit breakers sized
at 200 amperes or less, the arc flash PPE category can be reduced by one number but not below arc flash PPE category 1.
*For DOORS OPEN refer to the corresponding non-arc-resistant equipment section of this table.
Informational Note No. 1 to Table 130.7(C)(15)(a): The following are typical fault clearing times of overcurrent protective devices:
(1) 0.5 cycle fault clearing time is typical for current-limiting fuses and current-limiting molded case circuit breakers when the fault current
is within the current limiting range.
(2) 1.5 cycle fault clearing time is typical for molded case circuit breakers rated less than 1000 volts with an instantaneous integral trip.
(3) 3.0 cycle fault clearing time is typical for insulated case circuit breakers rated less than 1000 volts with an instantaneous integral trip or
relay operated trip.
(4) 5.0 cycle fault clearing time is typical for relay operated circuit breakers rated 1 kV to 35 kV when the relay operates in the
instantaneous range (i.e., “no intentional delay”).
(5) 20 cycle fault clearing time is typical for low-voltage power and insulated case circuit breakers with a short time fault clearing delay for
motor inrush.
(6) 30 cycle fault clearing time is typical for low-voltage power and insulated case circuit breakers with a short time fault clearing delay
without instantaneous trip.
Informational Note No. 2 to Table 130.7(C)(15)(a): See Table 1 of IEEE 1584, Guide for Performing Arc Flash Hazard Calculations, for further
information regarding list items (2) through (4) in Informational Note No. 1.
Informational Note No. 3 to Table 130.7(C)(15)(a): An example of a standard that provides information for arc-resistant equipment referred
to in Table 130.7(C)(15)(a) is IEEE C37.20.7, Guide for Testing Switchgear Rated Up to 52 kV for Internal Arcing Faults.
Informational Note No. 4 to Table 130.7(C)(15)(a): See O.2.4(9) for information on arc-resistant equipment.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.7
70E–36
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Δ
Table 130.7(C)(15)(b)  Arc Flash PPE Categories for dc Systems
Equipment
Arc Flash PPE
CategoryArc Flash Boundary
Storage batteries, dc switchboards, and other dc supply sources
Parameters: Greater than or equal to 100 volts and less than or equal to 250 volts
Maximum arc duration and minimum working distance: 2 sec @ 455 mm 
(18 in.)
Available fault current less than 4 kA2900 mm
(3 ft)
Available fault current greater than or equal to 4 kA and less than 7 kA21.2 m
(4 ft)
Available fault current greater than or equal to 7 kA and less than 15 kA31.8 m
(6 ft)
Storage batteries, dc switchboards, and other dc supply sources
Parameters: Greater than 250 volts and less than or equal to 600 volts
Maximum arc duration and minimum working distance: 2 sec @ 455 mm 
(18 in.)
Available fault current less than 1.5 kA2900 mm
(3 ft)
Available fault current greater than or equal to 1.5 kA and less than 3 kA21.2 m
(4 ft)
Available fault current greater than or equal to 3 kA and less than 7 kA31.8 m
(6 ft.)
Available fault current greater than or equal to 7 kA and less than 10 kA42.5 m
(8 ft)
Notes:
(1) Apparel that can be expected to be exposed to electrolyte must meet both of the following conditions:
    (a) Be evaluated for electrolyte protection
Informational Note: ASTM F1296, Standard Guide for Evaluating Chemical Protective Clothing, contains information on evaluating apparel for
protection from electrolyte.
    (b) Be arc rated
Informational Note: ASTM F1891, Standard Specification for Arc and Flame Resistant Rainwear, contains information on evaluating arc-rated
apparel.
(2) A two-second arc duration is assumed if there is no overcurrent protective device (OCPD) or if the fault clearing time is not known. If the fault
clearing time is known and is less than 2 seconds, an incident energy analysis could provide a more representative result.
Informational Note No. 1: When determining available fault current, the effects of cables and any other impedances in the circuit should be
included. Power system modeling is the best method to determine the available short-circuit current at the point of the arc. Battery cell short-
circuit current can be obtained from the battery manufacturer. See D.5 for the basis for table values and alternative methods to determine dc
incident energy. Methods should be used with good engineering judgment.
Informational Note No. 2: The methods for estimating the dc arc flash incident energy that were used to determine the categories for this
table are based on open-air incident energy calculations. Open-air calculations were used because many battery systems and other dc process
systems are in open areas or rooms. If the specific task is within an enclosure, it would be prudent to consider additional PPE protection
beyond the value shown in this table.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.7
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–37
Δ
Table 130.7(C)(15)(c)  Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
Arc-Flash PPE
CategoryPPE
1
Arc-Rated Clothing, Minimum Arc Rating of 4 cal/cm
2
 (16.75 J/cm
2
)
a
Arc-rated long-sleeve shirt and pants or arc-rated coverall
Arc-rated face shield
b
 or arc flash suit hood
Arc-rated jacket, parka, high-visibility apparel, rainwear, or hard hat liner (AN)
f
Protective Equipment
Hard hat
Safety glasses or safety goggles (SR)
Hearing protection (ear canal inserts)
c
Heavy-duty leather gloves, arc-rated gloves, or rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors (SR)
d
Leather footwear
e
 (AN)
2
Arc-Rated Clothing, Minimum Arc Rating of 8 cal/cm
2
 (33.5 J/cm
2
)
a
Arc-rated long-sleeve shirt and pants or arc-rated coverall
Arc-rated flash suit hood or arc-rated face shield
b
 and arc-rated balaclava
Arc-rated jacket, parka, high-visibility apparel, rainwear, or hard hat liner (AN)
f
Protective Equipment
Hard hat
Safety glasses or safety goggles (SR)
Hearing protection (ear canal inserts)
c
Heavy-duty leather gloves, arc-rated gloves, or rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors (SR)
d
Leather footwear
e
3
Arc-Rated Clothing Selected so That the System Arc Rating Meets the Required Minimum Arc Rating of 25 cal/cm
2
 (104.7 J/cm
2
)
a
Arc-rated long-sleeve shirt (AR)
Arc-rated pants (AR)
Arc-rated coverall (AR)
Arc-rated arc flash suit jacket (AR)
Arc-rated arc flash suit pants (AR)
Arc-rated arc flash suit hood
Arc-rated gloves or rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors (SR)
d
Arc-rated jacket, parka, high-visibility apparel, rainwear, or hard hat liner (AN)
f
Protective Equipment
Hard hat
Safety glasses or safety goggles (SR)
Hearing protection (ear canal inserts)
c
Leather footwear
e
4
Arc-Rated Clothing Selected so That the System Arc Rating Meets the Required Minimum Arc Rating of 40 cal/cm
2
 (167.5 J/cm
2
)
a
Arc-rated long-sleeve shirt (AR)
Arc-rated pants (AR)
Arc-rated coverall (AR)
Arc-rated arc flash suit jacket (AR)
Arc-rated arc flash suit pants (AR)
Arc-rated arc flash suit hood
Arc-rated gloves or rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors (SR)
d
Arc-rated jacket, parka, high-visibility apparel, rainwear, or hard hat liner (AN)
f
Protective Equipment
Hard hat
Safety glasses or safety goggles (SR)
Hearing protection (ear canal inserts)
c
Leather footwear
e
AN: As needed (optional). AR: As required. SR: Selection required.
a
Arc rating is defined in Article 100.
b
Face shields are to have wrap-around guarding to protect not only the face but also the forehead, ears, and neck, or, alternatively, an arc-rated arc
flash suit hood is required to be worn.
c
Other types of hearing protection are permitted to be used in lieu of or in addition to ear canal inserts provided they are worn under an arc-rated arc
flash suit hood.
d
Rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors provide arc flash protection in addition to shock protection. Higher class rubber insulating gloves
with leather protectors, due to their increased material thickness, provide increased arc flash protection.
e
Footwear other than leather or dielectric shall be permitted to be used provided it has been tested to demonstrate no ignition, melting or dripping at
the minimum arc rating for the respective arc flash PPE category.
f
The arc rating of outer layers worn over arc-rated clothing as protection from the elements or for other safety purposes, and that are not used as part
of a layered system, shall not be required to be equal to or greater than the estimated incident energy exposure.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.7
70E–38
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Δ(D)  Other Protective Equipment.
Δ(1) Insulated   Tools   and   Equipment. Tools   and   handling
equipment used within the restricted approach boundary shall
be insulated. Insulated tools shall be protected from damage to
the insulating material.
Informational  Note:  See  130.4(E),  Shock  Protection  Bounda‐
ries.
(a)     Requirements for Insulated Tools. The following require‐
ments shall apply to insulated tools:
(1)Insulated  tools  shall  be  rated  for  the  voltages  on  which
they are used.
(2)Insulated tools shall be designed and constructed for the
environment  to  which  they  are  exposed  and  the  manner
in which they are used.
(3)Insulated tools and equipment shall be inspected prior to
each  use.  The  inspection  shall  look  for  damage  to  the
insulation   or   damage   that   can   limit   the   tool   from
performing  its  intended  function  or  could  increase  the
potential  for  an  incident  (e.g.,  damaged  tip  on  a  screw‐
driver).
(b)     Fuse  or  Fuseholder  Handling  Equipment.  Fuse  or  fuse‐
holder  handling  equipment,  insulated  for  the  circuit  voltage,
shall be used to remove or install a fuse if the fuse terminals are
energized.
(c)     Ropes and Handlines. Ropes and handlines used within
the limited approach boundary shall be nonconductive.
(d)     Fiberglass-Reinforced  Plastic  Rods.  Fiberglass-reinforced
plastic  rod  and  tube  used  for  live-line  tools  shall  meet  the
requirements  of  applicable  portions  of  electrical  codes  and
standards dealing with electrical installation requirements.
Informational Note: For further information concerning electri‐
cal  codes  and  standards  dealing  with  installation  requirements,
refer  to  ASTM  F711,  Standard  Specification  for  Fiberglass-Reinforced
Plastic (FRP) Rod and Tube Used in Live Line Tools.
(e)     Portable  Ladders.  Portable  ladders  shall  have  noncon‐
ductive side rails when used within the limited approach boun‐
dary  or  where  the  employee  or  ladder  could  contact  exposed
energized electrical conductors or circuit parts. Nonconductive
ladders shall meet the requirements of applicable state, federal,
or local codes and standards.
Informational  Note:  The  standards  listed  in  Table  130.7(G),
Informational  Note  are  examples  of  standards  that  contain
information on portable ladders.
N(2)  Barriers.  Exposed    energized    electrical    conductors    or
circuit parts operating at 50 volts or more shall be guarded by a
barrier     in     accordance     with     130.7(D)(2)(a)     through
130.7(D)(2)(c)to   prevent   unintentional   contact   while   an
employee  is  working  within  the  restricted  approach  boundary
of those conductors or circuit parts. Barriers shall be supported
to remain in place and shall prevent unintentional contact by a
person, tool, or equipment.
(a)     Rubber  Insulating  Equipment.  Rubber  insulating  equip‐
ment used for protection from unintentional contact with ener‐
gized  conductors  or  circuit  parts  shall  be  rated  for  the  voltage
and shall meet the requirements of applicable state, federal, or
local codes and standards.
Informational  Note:  The  standards  listed  in  Table  130.7(G),
Informational  Note  are  examples  of  standards  that  contain
information on rubber insulating equipment.
(b)     Voltage-Rated  Plastic  Guard  Equipment.  Plastic  guard
equipment  for  protection  of  employees  from  unintentional
contact  with  energized  conductors  or  circuit  parts,  or  for
protection  of  employees  or  energized  equipment  or  material
from  contact  with  ground,  shall  be  rated  for  the  voltage  and
shall  meet  the  requirements  of  applicable  state,  federal,  or
local codes and standards.
Informational  Note:  The  standards  listed  in  Table  130.7(G),
Informational  Note  are  examples  of  standards  that  contain
information on voltage-rated plastic guard equipment.
(c)     Physical  or  Mechanical  Barriers.  Physical  or  mechanical
(field-fabricated)  barriers  shall  be  installed  no  closer  than  the
restricted approach boundary distance given in Table 130.4(E)
(a) and Table 130.4(E)(b). While the barrier is being installed,
the  restricted  approach  boundary  distance  specified  in  Table
130.4(E)(a) and Table 130.4(E)(b) shall be maintained, or the
energized conductors or circuit parts shall be placed in an elec‐
trically safe work condition.
(E)  Alerting Techniques.
(1) Safety  Signs  and  Tags.  Safety  signs,  safety  symbols,  or  tags
shall be used where necessary to warn employees about electri‐
cal  hazards  that  might  endanger  them.  Such  signs  and  tags
shall  meet  the  requirements  of  applicable  state,  federal,  or
local codes and standards.
Informational Note No. 1: Safety signs, tags, and barricades used
to identify energized “look-alike” equipment can be employed as
an additional preventive measure.
Informational   Note   No.   2:   The   standards   listed   in   Table
130.7(G),  Informational  Note  are  examples  of  standards  that
contain information on safety signs and tags.
(2)  Barricades.  Barricades  shall  be  used  in  conjunction  with
safety  signs  where  it  is  necessary  to  prevent  or  limit  employee
access to work areas containing energized conductors or circuit
parts.  Conductive  barricades  shall  not  be  used  where  it  might
increase  the  likelihood  of  exposure  to  an  electrical  hazard.
Barricades shall be placed no closer than the limited approach
boundary  given  in  Table  130.4(E)(a)  and  Table  130.4(E)(b).
Where  the  arc  flash  boundary  is  greater  than  the  limited
approach boundary, barricades shall not be placed closer than
the arc flash boundary.
(3)  Attendants.  If  signs  and  barricades  do  not  provide  suffi‐
cient   warning   and   protection   from   electrical   hazards,   an
attendant  shall  be  stationed  to  warn  and  protect  employees.
The  primary  duty  and  responsibility  of  an  attendant  providing
manual  signaling  and  alerting  shall  be  to  keep  unqualified
employees outside a work area where the unqualified employee
might  be  exposed  to  electrical  hazards.  An  attendant  shall
remain in the area as long as there is a potential for employees
to be exposed to the electrical hazards.
(F) Look-Alike  Equipment.  Where  work  performed  on  equip‐
ment  that  is  de-energized  and  placed  in  an  electrically  safe
condition exists in a work area with other energized equipment
that is similar in size, shape, and construction, one of the alert‐
ing  methods  in  130.7(E)(1),  (2),  or  (3)  shall  be  employed  to
prevent the employee from entering look-alike equipment.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.8
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–39
(G) Standards for Other Protective Equipment.  Other protec‐
tive  equipment  required  in  130.7(D)  shall  conform  to  the
applicable state, federal, or local codes and standards.
Informational  Note:  The  standards  listed  in  Table  130.7(G),
which is part of this Informational Note, are examples of stand‐
ards that contain information on other protective equipment.
130.8  Other Precautions for Personnel Activities.
(A)  Alertness.
(1) Where  Electrical  Hazards  Might  Exist.  Employees  shall  be
instructed to be alert at all times where electrical hazards might
exist.
Δ(2)  When Impaired.  Employees shall not be permitted to work
where electrical hazards exist while their alertness is recogniza‐
bly impaired due to illness, fatigue, or other reasons.
(3) Changes  in  Scope.  Employees  shall  be  instructed  to  be
alert  for  changes  in  the  job  or  task  that  could  lead  the  person
outside  of  the  electrically  safe  work  condition  or  expose  the
person to additional hazards that were not part of the original
plan.
(B) Blind   Reaching.  Employees   shall   be   instructed   not   to
reach  blindly  into  areas  that  might  contain  exposed  energized
electrical conductors or circuit parts where an electrical hazard
exists.
Δ(C)  Illumination.
(1)  General.  Employees shall not enter spaces where electrical
hazards  exist  unless  illumination  is  provided  that  enables  the
employees to perform the work safely.
Δ
Table 130.7(G)  Informational Note: Standards on Other Protective Equipment
SubjectDocumentDocument Number
Arc Protective BlanketsStandard Test Method for Determining the Protective 
Performance of an Arc Protective Blanket for Electric Arc 
Hazards
ASTM F2676
Arc Protective Blankets — 
Selection, Care, and Use
Standard Guide for Selection, Care, and Use of Arc Protective 
Blankets
ASTM F3272
BlanketsStandard Specification for Rubber Insulating BlanketsASTM D1048
Blankets — In-service CareStandard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating BlanketsASTM F479
CoversStandard Specification for Rubber Insulating CoversASTM D1049
Fiberglass Rods — Live Line 
Tools
Standard Specification for Fiberglass-Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Rod 
and Tube Used in Live Line Tools
ASTM F711
Insulated Hand ToolsStandard Specification for Insulated and Insulating Hand ToolsASTM F1505
LaddersAmerican National Standard for Ladders — Wood — Safety 
Requirements
ANSI/ ASC A14.1
American National Standard for Ladders — Fixed — Safety 
Requirements
ANSI /ASC A14.3
American National Standard Safety Requirements for Job Made 
Wooden Ladders
ANSI ASC A14.4
American National Standard for Ladders — Portable Reinforced 
Plastic — Safety Requirements
ANSI ASC A14.5
Line HoseStandard Specification for Rubber Insulating Line HosesASTM D1050
Line Hose and Covers — In-
service Care
Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Line Hose 
and Covers
ASTM F478
Plastic GuardStandard Test Methods and Specifications for Electrically 
Insulating Plastic Guard Equipment for Protection of Workers
ASTM F712
SheetingStandard Specification for PVC Insulating SheetingASTM F1742
Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating SheetingASTM F2320
Safety Signs and TagsSeries of Standards for Safety Signs and TagsANSI Z535
Shield Performance on Live Line 
Tool
Standard Test Method for Determining the Protective 
Performance of a Shield Attached on Live Line Tools or on 
Racking Rods for Electric Arc Hazards
ASTM F2522
Temporary Protective Grounds 
— In-service Testing
Standard Specification for In-Service Test Methods for Temporary 
Grounding Jumper Assemblies Used on De-energized Electric 
Power Lines and Equipment
ASTM F2249
Temporary Protective Grounds 
— Test Specification
Standard Specification for Temporary Protective Grounds to Be 
Used on De-energized Electric Power Lines and Equipment
ASTM F855
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.8
70E–40
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Δ(2)  Obstructed View of Work Area.  Where lack of illumination
or  an  obstruction  precludes  observation  of  the  work  to  be
performed,  employees  shall  not  perform  any  task  where  an
electrical hazard exists.
(D) Conductive  Articles  Being  Worn.  Conductive  articles  of
jewelry  and  clothing  (such  as  watchbands,  bracelets,  rings,  key
chains,   necklaces,   metalized   aprons,   cloth   with   conductive
thread,  metal  headgear,  or  metal  frame  glasses)  shall  not  be
worn  within  the  restricted  approach  boundary  or  where  they
present  an  electrical  contact  hazard  with  exposed  energized
electrical conductors or circuit parts.
(E) Conductive    Materials,    Tools,    and    Equipment    Being
Handled.
(1)  General.  Conductive  materials,  tools,  and  equipment  that
are  in  contact  with  any  part  of  an  employee’s  body  shall  be
handled  in  a  manner  that  prevents  unintentional  contact  with
energized electrical conductors or circuit parts. Such materials
and  equipment  shall  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  long
conductive  objects,  such  as  ducts,  pipes  and  tubes,  conductive
hose and rope, metal-lined rules and scales, steel tapes, pulling
lines,  metal  scaffold  parts,  structural  members,  bull  floats,  and
chains.
(2) Approach  to  Energized  Electrical  Conductors  and  Circuit
Parts.  Means  shall  be  employed  to  ensure  that  conductive
materials approach exposed energized electrical conductors or
circuit parts no closer than that permitted by 
130.4(F).
Δ(F) Confined  or  Enclosed  Work  Spaces.  When  an  employee
works  in  a  confined  or  enclosed  space  (such  as  a  manhole  or
vault)  where  an  electrical  hazard  exists,  the  employer  shall
provide, and the employee shall use, protective shields, protec‐
tive  barriers,  or  insulating  materials  as  necessary  to  protect
against electrical hazards.
Δ(G) Doors  and  Hinged  Panels.  Doors,  hinged  panels,  and  the
like   shall   be   secured   to   prevent   their   swinging   into   an
employee  and  causing  the  employee  to  contact  exposed  ener‐
gized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts  where  an  electrical
hazard  exists  if  movement  of  the  door,  hinged  panel,  and  the
like is likely to create a hazard.
(H) Clear Spaces.  Working space required by other codes and
standards shall not be used for storage. This space shall be kept
clear  to  permit  safe  operation  and  maintenance  of  electrical
equipment.
(I) Housekeeping Duties.  Employees shall not perform house‐
keeping  duties  inside  the  limited  approach  boundary  where
there   is   a   possibility   of   contact   with   energized   electrical
conductors or circuit parts, unless adequate safeguards (such as
insulating  equipment  or  barriers)  are  provided  to  prevent
contact.  Electrically  conductive  cleaning  materials  (including
conductive  solids  such  as  steel  wool,  metalized  cloth,  and  sili‐
cone  carbide,  as  well  as  conductive  liquid  solutions)  shall  not
be  used  inside  the  limited  approach  boundary  unless  proce‐
dures to prevent electrical contact are followed.
(J) Occasional Use of Flammable Materials.  Where flammable
materials  are  present  only  occasionally,  electric  equipment
capable  of  igniting  them  shall  not  be  permitted  to  be  used,
unless  measures  are  taken  to  prevent  hazardous  conditions
from developing. Such materials shall include, but are not limi‐
ted  to,  flammable  gases,  vapors,  or  liquids,  combustible  dust,
and ignitible fibers or flyings.
Informational   Note:   Electrical   installation   requirements   for
locations  where  flammable  materials  are  present  on  a  regular
basis are contained in NFPA
 70, National Electrical Code.
(K) Anticipating  Failure.  When  there  is  evidence  that  electric
equipment could fail and injure employees, the electric equip‐
ment  shall  be  de-energized,  unless  the  employer  can  demon‐
strate   that   de-energizing   introduces   additional   hazards   or
increased  risk  or  is  infeasible  because  of  equipment  design  or
operational  limitation.  Until  the  equipment  is  de-energized  or
repaired, employees shall be protected from hazards associated
with the impending failure of the equipment by suitable barri‐
cades and other alerting techniques necessary for safety of the
employees.
Informational Note: See 130.7(E) for alerting techniques.
(L) Routine   Opening   and   Closing   of   Circuits.  Load-rated
switches, circuit breakers, or other devices specifically designed
as  disconnecting  means  shall  be  used  for  the  opening,  revers‐
ing, or closing of circuits under load conditions. Cable connec‐
tors  not  of  the  load-break  type,  fuses,  terminal  lugs,  and  cable
splice  connections  shall  not  be  permitted  to  be  used  for  such
purposes, except in an emergency.
(M) Reclosing   Circuits   After   Protective   Device   Operation.
After  a  circuit  is  de-energized  by  the  automatic  operation  of  a
circuit  protective  device,  the  circuit  shall  not  be  manually  re-
energized until it has been determined that the equipment and
circuit can be safely energized. The repetitive manual reclosing
of  circuit  breakers  or  re-energizing  circuits  through  replaced
fuses  shall  be  prohibited.  When  it  is  determined  from  the
design  of  the  circuit  and  the  overcurrent  devices  involved  that
the automatic operation of a device was caused by an overload
rather  than  a  fault  condition,  examination  of  the  circuit  or
connected  equipment  shall  not  be  required  before  the  circuit
is re-energized.
(N) Safety  Interlocks.  Only  qualified  persons  following  the
requirements for working inside the restricted approach boun‐
dary  as  covered  by  130.4(
G)  shall  be  permitted  to  defeat  or
bypass  an  electrical  safety  interlock  over  which  the  person  has
sole  control,  and  then  only  temporarily  while  the  qualified
person  is  working  on  the  equipment.  The  safety  interlock
system  shall  be  returned  to  its  operable  condition  when  the
work is completed.
130.9 Work  Within  the  Limited  Approach  Boundary  or  Arc
Flash Boundary of Overhead Lines.
(A) Uninsulated  and  Energized.  Where  work  is  performed  in
locations containing uninsulated energized overhead lines that
are  not  guarded  or  isolated,  precautions  shall  be  taken  to
prevent employees from contacting such lines directly with any
unguarded parts of their body or indirectly through conductive
materials,   tools,   or   equipment.   Where   the   work   to   be
performed  is  such  that  contact  with  uninsulated  energized
overhead  lines  is  possible,  the  lines  shall  be  de-energized  and
visibly grounded at the point of work or suitably guarded.
(B) Determination  of  Insulation  Rating.  A  qualified  person
shall determine if the overhead electrical lines are insulated for
the lines' operating voltage.
(C) De-energizing  or  Guarding.  If  the  lines  are  to  be  de-
energized,  arrangements  shall  be  made  with  the  person  or
organization  that  operates  or  controls  the  lines  to  de-energize
them and visibly ground them at the point of work. If arrange‐
ments  are  made  to  use  protective  measures,  such  as  guarding,
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 130 — WORK INVOLVING ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
130.12
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–41
isolating,  or  insulation,  these  precautions  shall  prevent  each
employee  from  contacting  such  lines  directly  with  any  part  of
his  or  her  body  or  indirectly  through  conductive  materials,
tools, or equipment.
(D) Employer   and   Employee   Responsibility.  The   employer
and  employee  shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  that  guards  or
protective measures are satisfactory for the conditions. Employ‐
ees shall comply with established work methods and the use of
protective equipment.
(E) Approach    Distances    for    Unqualified    Persons.  When
unqualified persons are working on the ground or in an eleva‐
ted position near overhead lines, the location shall be such that
the  employee  and  the  longest  conductive  object  the  employee
might contact do not come closer to any unguarded, energized
overhead  power  line  than  the  limited  approach  boundary  in
Table 130.4(E)(a), column 2 or Table 130.4(E)(b), column 2.
Informational  Note:  Objects  that  are  not  insulated  for  the  volt‐
age involved should be considered to be conductive.
(F)  Vehicular and Mechanical Equipment.
(1) Elevated  Equipment.
  Where  any  vehicle  or  mechanical
equipment  structure  will  be  elevated  near  energized  overhead
lines,  it  shall  be  operated  so  that  the  limited  approach  boun‐
dary distance of Table 130.4(E)(a), column 2 or Table 130.4(E)
(b), column 2, is maintained. However, under any of the follow‐
ing   conditions,   the   clearances   shall   be   permitted   to   be
reduced:
(1)If  the  vehicle  is  in  transit  with  its  structure  lowered,  the
limited  approach  boundary  to  overhead  lines  in  Table
130.4(E)(a),  column  2  or  Table  130.4(E)(b),  column  2,
shall be permitted to be reduced by 1.83 m (6 ft). If insu‐
lated  barriers,  rated  for  the  voltages  involved,  are  in‐
stalled  and  they  are  not  part  of  an  attachment  to  the
vehicle, the clearance shall be permitted to be reduced to
the design working dimensions of the insulating barrier.
(2)If the equipment is an aerial lift insulated for the voltage
involved,  and  if  the  work  is  performed  by  a  qualified
person,  the  clearance  (between  the  uninsulated  portion
of the aerial lift and the power line) shall be permitted to
be reduced to the restricted approach boundary given in
Table   130.4(E)(a),   column   4   or   Table   130.4(E)(b),
column 4.
(2) Equipment  Contact.  Employees  standing  on  the  ground
shall  not  contact  the  vehicle  or  mechanical  equipment  or  any
of  its  attachments  unless  either  of  the  following  conditions
apply:
(1)The employee is using protective equipment rated for the
voltage.
(2)The  equipment  is  located  so  that  no  uninsulated  part  of
its structure (that portion of the structure that provides a
conductive  path  to  employees  on  the  ground)  can  come
closer to the line than permitted in 130.9(F)(1).
(3)  Equipment Grounding.  If any vehicle or mechanical equip‐
ment  is  capable  of  having  parts  of  its  structure  elevated  within
the  limited  approach  boundary  of  exposed  movable  conduc‐
tors of energized overhead lines and is intentionally grounded,
employees working on the ground near the point of grounding
shall  not  stand  at  the  grounding  location  whenever  there  is  a
possibility  of  overhead  line  contact.  Additional  precautions,
such  as  the  use  of  barricades,  dielectric  overshoe  footwear,  or
insulation, shall be taken to protect employees from hazardous
ground potentials (step and touch potential).
Informational Note: Upon contact of the elevated structure with
the  energized  lines,  hazardous  ground  potentials  can  develop
within a few feet or more outward from the grounded point.
130.10 Underground  Electrical  Lines  and  Equipment.  Before
excavation  starts  where  there  exists  a  reasonable  possibility  of
contacting  electrical  lines  or  equipment,  the  employer  shall
take  the  necessary  steps  to  contact  the  appropriate  owners  or
authorities  to  identify  and  mark  the  location  of  the  electrical
lines  or  equipment.  When  it  has  been  determined  that  a
reasonable  possibility  of  contacting  electrical  lines  or  equip‐
ment  exists,  appropriate  safe  work  practices  and  PPE  shall  be
used during the excavation. 
130.11 Cutting   or   Drilling.  Before   cutting   or   drilling   into
equipment,  floors,  walls,  or  structural  elements  where  a  likeli‐
hood of contacting energized electrical lines or parts exists, the
employer shall perform a risk assessment to:
(1)Identify  and  mark  the  location  of  conductors,  cables,
raceways, or equipment
(2)Create an electrically safe work condition
(3)Identify safe work practices and PPE to be used
Δ130.12 Cutting,   Removing,   or   Rerouting   of   Conductors.
Where conductors are de-energized in order to cut, remove, or
reroute  them  and  the  conductor  terminations  are  not  within
sight from the point of work, such as where the conductors are
remote  from  the  source  of  supply  in  a  junction  or  pull  box,
additional  steps  to  verify  absence  of  voltage  or  identify  the
conductors shall be taken prior to cutting, removing, or rerout‐
ing the conductors.
Informational Note: Additional steps to be taken 
where conduc‐
tors  are  de-energized  in  order  to  cut,  remove,  or  reroute  them
include, but are not limited to, remotely spiking the conductors,
pulling conductors to visually verify movement, remotely cutting
the   conductors,   or   other   approved   methods.   Nonshielded
conductors could be additionally verified with a noncontact test
instrument, and shielded conductors could be verified with devi‐
ces that identify the conductors.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 205 — GENERAL MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS
CHAPTER 2
70E–42
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Chapter 2   Safety-Related Maintenance Requirements
ARTICLE 200
Introduction
Δ200.1  Scope.  Chapter   2   addresses   the   requirements   that
follow.
(1)Chapter   2   covers   practical   safety-related   maintenance
requirements for electrical equipment and installations in
workplaces as included in 90.2. These requirements iden‐
tify   only   that   maintenance   directly   associated   with
employee safety.
(2)Chapter 2 does not prescribe specific maintenance meth‐
ods  or  testing  procedures.  It  is  left  to  the  employer  to
choose  from  the  various  maintenance  methods  available
to satisfy the requirements of Chapter 2.
(3)For  the  purpose  of  Chapter  2,  maintenance  shall  be
defined  as  preserving  or  restoring  the  condition  of  elec‐
trical  equipment  and  installations,  or  parts  of  either,  for
the safety of employees who work where exposed to elec‐
trical   hazards.   Repair   or   replacement   of   individual
portions or parts of equipment shall be permitted without
requiring  modification  or  replacement  of  other  portions
or parts that are in a safe condition.
Informational Note: Refer to NFPA 70B, Recommended Practice for
Electrical  Equipment  Maintenance;  ANSI/NETA  MTS,  Standard  for
Maintenance  Testing  Specifications  for  Electrical  Power  Distribution
Equipment  and  Systems;  and  IEEE  3007.2,  Recommended  Practice  for
the  Maintenance  of  Industrial  and  Commercial  Power  Systems,  for
guidance on maintenance frequency, methods, and tests.
ARTICLE 205
General Maintenance Requirements
205.1 Qualified   Persons.  Employees   who   perform   mainte‐
nance  on  electrical  equipment  and  installations  shall  be  quali‐
fied  persons  as  required  in  Chapter  1  and  shall  be  trained  in,
and  familiar  with,  the  specific  maintenance  procedures  and
tests required.
205.2  Single-Line Diagram.  A single-line diagram, where provi‐
ded  for  the  electrical  system,  shall  be  maintained  in  a  legible
condition and shall be kept current.
205.3 General   Maintenance   Requirements.  Electrical   equip‐
ment  shall  be  maintained  in  accordance  with  manufacturers'
instructions or industry consensus standards to reduce the risk
associated  with  failure.  The  equipment  owner  or  the  owner’s
designated representative shall be responsible for maintenance
of the electrical equipment and documentation.
Informational  Note  No.  1:    Common  industry  practice  is  to
apply test or calibration decals to equipment to indicate the test
or calibration date and overall condition of equipment that has
been  tested  and  maintained  in  the  field.  These  decals  provide
the  employee  immediate  indication  of  last  maintenance  date
and  if  the  tested  device  or  system  was  found  acceptable  on  the
date  of  test.  This  local  information  can  assist  the  employee  in
the  assessment  of  overall  electrical  equipment  maintenance
status.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  Noncontact  diagnostic  methods  in
addition to scheduled maintenance activities of electrical equip‐
ment can assist in the identification of electrical anomalies.
205.4 Overcurrent  Protective  Devices.  Overcurrent  protective
devices shall be maintained in accordance with the manufactur‐
ers’ instructions or industry consensus standards. Maintenance,
tests, and inspections shall be documented.
205.5 Spaces  About  Electrical  Equipment.  All  working  space
and clearances required by electrical codes and standards shall
be maintained.
Informational Note: For further information concerning spaces
about  electrical  equipment,  see  Article  110,  Parts  II  and  III,  of
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code.
205.6 Grounding   and   Bonding.  Equipment,   raceway,   cable
tray,  and  enclosure  bonding  and  grounding  shall  be  main‐
tained to ensure electrical continuity.
205.7 Guarding  of  Energized  Conductors  and  Circuit  Parts.
Enclosures  shall  be  maintained  to  guard  against  unintentional
contact  with  exposed  energized  conductors  and  circuit  parts
and other electrical hazards. Covers and doors shall be in place
with all associated fasteners and latches secured.
205.8 Safety  Equipment.  Locks,  interlocks,  and  other  safety
equipment shall be maintained in proper working condition to
accomplish the control purpose.
205.9 Clear   Spaces.  Access   to   working   space   and   escape
passages shall be kept clear and unobstructed.
205.10 Identification     of     Components. Identification     of
components,  where  required,  and  safety-related  instructions
(operating   or   maintenance),   if   posted,   shall   be   securely
attached and maintained in legible condition.
205.11  Warning Signs.  Warning signs, where required, shall be
visible, securely attached, and maintained in legible condition.
205.12 Identification  of  Circuits.  Circuit  or  voltage  identifica‐
tion  shall  be  securely  affixed  and  maintained  in  updated  and
legible condition.
205.13 Single  and  Multiple  Conductors  and  Cables.  Electrical
cables and single and multiple conductors shall be maintained
free of damage, shorts, and ground that would expose employ‐
ees to an electrical hazard.
205.14 Flexible  Cords  and  Cables.  Flexible  cords  and  cables
shall be maintained to preserve insulation integrity.
(1) Damaged  Cords  and  Cables.  Cords  and  cables  shall  not
have   worn,   frayed,   or   damaged   areas   that   would   expose
employees to an electrical hazard.
(2) Strain  Relief.  Strain  relief  of  cords  and  cables  shall  be
maintained  to  prevent  pull  from  being  transmitted  directly  to
joints or terminals.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 230 — ROTATING EQUIPMENT
230.2
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–43
(3) Repair  and  Replacement.  Cords  and  cord  caps  for  porta‐
ble  electrical  equipment  shall  be  repaired  and  replaced  by
qualified  personnel  and  checked  for  proper  polarity,  ground‐
ing, and continuity prior to returning to service.
205.15 Overhead  Line  Clearances.  For  overhead  electric  lines
under  the  employer’s  control,  grade  elevation  shall  be  main‐
tained to preserve no less than the minimum designed vertical
and  horizontal  clearances  necessary  to  minimize  risk  of  unin‐
tentional contact.
ARTICLE 210
Substations, Switchgear Assemblies,
Switchboards, Panelboards, Motor Control
Centers, and Disconnect Switches
210.1  Enclosures.  Enclosures  shall  be  kept  free  of  material
that would expose employees to an electrical hazard.
210.2 Area   Enclosures.  Fences,   physical   protection,   enclo‐
sures,  or  other  protective  means,  where  required  to  guard
against   unauthorized   access   or   unintentional   contact   with
exposed energized conductors and circuit parts, shall be main‐
tained.
210.3  Conductors.  Current-carrying       conductors       (buses,
switches,  disconnects,  joints,  and  terminations)  and  bracing
shall be maintained to perform as follows:
(1)Conduct rated current without overheating
(2)Withstand available fault current
210.4 Insulation  Integrity.  Insulation  integrity  shall  be  main‐
tained to support the voltage impressed.
210.5 Protective   Devices.  Protective   devices   shall   be   main‐
tained  to  adequately  withstand  or  interrupt  available  fault
current.
Informational  Note:  Improper  or  inadequate  maintenance  can
result  in  increased  opening  time  of  the  overcurrent  protective
device, thus increasing the incident energy.
ARTICLE 215
Premises Wiring
215.1 Covers   for   Wiring   System   Components.  Covers   for
wiring  system  components  shall  be  in  place  with  all  associated
hardware, and there shall be no unprotected openings.
215.2 Open  Wiring  Protection.  Open  wiring  protection,  such
as location or barriers, shall be maintained to prevent uninten‐
tional contact.
215.3 Raceways  and  Cable  Trays.  Raceways  and  cable  trays
shall be maintained to provide physical protection and support
for conductors.
ARTICLE 220
Controller Equipment
220.1  Scope.  This  article  shall  apply  to  controllers,  including
electrical  equipment  that  governs  the  starting,  stopping,  direc‐
tion of motion, acceleration, speed, and protection of rotating
equipment  and  other  power  utilization  apparatus  in  the  work‐
place.
220.2 Protection    and    Control    Circuitry.  Protection    and
control  circuitry  used  to  guard  against  unintentional  contact
with  exposed  energized  conductors  and  circuit  parts  and  to
prevent  other  electrical  or  mechanical  hazards  shall  be  main‐
tained.
ARTICLE 225
Fuses and Circuit Breakers
225.1  Fuses.  Fuses shall be maintained free of breaks or cracks
in  fuse  cases,  ferrules,  and  insulators.  Fuse  clips  shall  be  main‐
tained  to  provide  adequate  contact  with  fuses.  Fuseholders  for
current-limiting  fuses  shall  not  be  modified  to  allow  the  inser‐
tion of fuses that are not current-limiting. Non-current limiting
fuses shall not be modified to allow their insertion into current-
limiting fuseholders.
225.2 Molded-Case    Circuit    Breakers.  Molded-case    circuit
breakers   shall   be   maintained   free   of   cracks   in   cases   and
cracked or broken operating handles.
225.3 Circuit  Breaker  Testing  After  Electrical  Faults.  Circuit
breakers  that  interrupt  faults  approaching  their  interrupting
ratings  shall  be  inspected  and  tested  in  accordance  with  the
manufacturer’s instructions.
ARTICLE 230
Rotating Equipment
230.1 Terminal  Boxes.  Terminal  chambers,  enclosures,  and
terminal  boxes  shall  be  maintained  to  guard  against  uninten‐
tional  contact  with  exposed  energized  conductors  and  circuit
parts and other electrical hazards.
230.2 Guards,  Barriers,  and  Access  Plates.  Guards,  barriers,
and  access  plates  shall  be  maintained  to  prevent  employees
from contacting moving or energized parts.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 250 — PERSONAL SAFETY AND PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
235.1
70E–44
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
ARTICLE 235
Hazardous (Classified) Locations
235.1  Scope.  This article covers maintenance requirements in
those areas identified as hazardous (classified) locations.
Informational Note No. 1: These locations need special types of
equipment  and  installation  to  ensure  safe  performance  under
conditions  of  proper  use  and  maintenance.  It  is  important  that
inspection  authorities  and  users  exercise  more  than  ordinary
care  with  regard  to  installation  and  maintenance.  The  mainte‐
nance for specific equipment and materials is covered elsewhere
in  Chapter  2  and  is  applicable  to  hazardous  (classified)  loca‐
tions. Other maintenance will ensure that the form of construc‐
tion and of installation that makes the equipment and materials
suitable for the particular location are not compromised.
Informational Note No. 2: The maintenance needed for specific
hazardous (classified) locations depends on the classification of
the specific location. The design principles and equipment char‐
acteristics,  for  example,  use  of  positive  pressure  ventilation,
explosionproof,  nonincendive,  intrinsically  safe,  and  purged
and pressurized equipment, that were applied in the installation
to meet the requirements of the area classification must also be
known. With this information, the employer and the inspection
authority are able to determine whether the installation as main‐
tained has retained the condition necessary for a safe workplace.
235.2 Maintenance  Requirements  for  Hazardous  (Classified)
Locations.  Equipment and installations in these locations shall
be maintained such that the following criteria are met:
(1)No energized parts are exposed.
Exception to (1): Intrinsically safe and nonincendive circuits.
(2)There are no breaks in conduit systems, fittings, or enclo‐
sures from damage, corrosion, or other causes.
(3)All bonding jumpers are securely fastened and intact.
(4)All fittings, boxes, and enclosures with bolted covers have
all bolts installed and bolted tight.
(5)All   threaded   conduit   are   wrenchtight   and   enclosure
covers  are  tightened  in  accordance  with  the  manufactur‐
er’s instructions.
(6)There  are  no  open  entries  into  fittings,  boxes,  or  enclo‐
sures  that  would  compromise  the  protection  characteris‐
tics.
(7)All   close-up   plugs,   breathers,   seals,   and   drains   are
securely in place.
(8)Marking  of  luminaires  (lighting  fixtures)  for  maximum
lamp  wattage  and  temperature  rating  is  legible  and  not
exceeded.
(9)Required markings are secure and legible.
ARTICLE 240
Batteries and Battery Rooms
240.1  Ventilation.  When  forced  or  natural  ventilation  systems
are required by the battery system design and are present, they
shall be examined and maintained to prevent buildup of explo‐
sive  mixtures.  This  maintenance  shall  include  a  functional  test
of any associated detection and alarm systems.
Informational  Note:  “Natural  ventilation”  implies  there  are  no
mechanical mechanisms. Maintenance includes activities such as
inspection and removal of any obstructions to natural air flow.
240.2  Eye and Body Wash Apparatus.  Eye and body wash appa‐
ratus shall be maintained in operable condition.
ARTICLE 245
Portable Electric Tools and Equipment
245.1 Maintenance  Requirements  for  Portable  Electric  Tools
and  Equipment.  Attachment  plugs,  receptacles,  cover  plates,
and  cord  connectors  shall  be  maintained  such  that  the  follow‐
ing criteria are met:
(1)There  are  no  breaks,  damage,  or  cracks  exposing  ener‐
gized conductors and circuit parts.
(2)There are no missing cover plates.
(3)Terminations have no stray strands or loose terminals.
(4)There are no missing, loose, altered, or damaged blades,
pins, or contacts.
(5)Polarity is correct.
ARTICLE 250
Personal Safety and Protective Equipment
250.1 Maintenance   Requirements   for   Personal   Safety   and
Protective  Equipment.  Personal  safety  and  protective  equip‐
ment such as the following shall be maintained in a safe work‐
ing condition:
(1)Grounding equipment
(2)Hot sticks
(3)Rubber gloves, sleeves, and leather protectors
(4)Test instruments
(5)Blanket and similar insulating equipment
(6)Insulating mats and similar insulating equipment
(7)Protective barriers
(8)External circuit breaker rack-out devices
(9)Portable lighting units
(10)Temporary protective grounding equipment
(11)Dielectric footwear
(12)Protective clothing
(13)Bypass jumpers
(14)Insulated and insulating hand tools
250.2 Inspection  and  Testing  of  Protective  Equipment  and
Protective Tools.
(A)  Visual.  Safety  and  protective  equipment  and  protective
tools shall be visually inspected for damage and defects before
initial  use  and  at  intervals  thereafter,  as  service  conditions
require,  but  in  no  case  shall  the  interval  exceed  1  year,  unless
specified  otherwise  by  the  applicable  state,  federal,  or  local
codes and standards.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 250 — PERSONAL SAFETY AND PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
250.4
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–45
(B)  Testing.  The   insulation   of   protective   equipment   and
protective  tools,  such  as  items  specified  in  250.1(1)  through
250.1(14),   that   is   used   as   primary   protection   from   shock
hazards and requires an insulation system to ensure protection
of personnel, shall be verified by the appropriate test and visual
inspection   to   ascertain   that   insulating   capability   has   been
retained before initial use, and at intervals thereafter, as service
conditions  and  applicable  standards  and  instructions  require,
but in no case shall the interval exceed 3 years.
250.3  Safety Grounding Equipment.
(A) 
Inspection.  Personal  protective  ground  cable  sets  shall  be
inspected  for  cuts  in  the  protective  sheath  and  damage  to  the
conductors. Clamps and connector strain relief devices shall be
checked for tightness. These inspections shall be made at inter‐
vals thereafter as service conditions require, but in no case shall
the interval exceed 1 year.
(B)  Testing.
  Prior  to  being  returned  to  service,  temporary
protective  grounding  equipment  that  has  been  repaired  or
modified   shall   be   tested.
   Temporary   protective   grounding
equipment shall be tested as service conditions require.
Informational  Note:  Guidance  for  inspecting  and  testing  safety
grounds is provided in ASTM F2249, Standard Specification for In-
Service Test Methods for Temporary Grounding Jumper Assemblies Used
on De-energized Electric Power Lines and Equipment.
(C) Grounding  and  Testing  Devices.  Grounding  and  testing
devices shall be stored in a clean and dry area. Grounding and
testing  devices  shall  be  properly  inspected  and  tested  before
each use.
Informational Note: Guidance for testing of grounding and test‐
ing devices is provided in Section 9.5 of IEEE C37.20.6, Standard
for  4.76  kV  to  38  kV  Rated  Ground  and  Test  Devices  Used  in  Enclo‐
sures.
Δ250.4 Test  Instruments.  Test  instruments  and  associated  test
leads used to verify the absence or presence of voltage shall be
maintained  to  assure  functional  integrity.  The  maintenance
program  shall  include  functional  verification  as  described  in
110.8(E).
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 310 — SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES FOR ELECTROLYTIC CELLS
CHAPTER 3
70E–46
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Chapter 3   Safety Requirements for Special Equipment
ARTICLE 300
Introduction
300.1  Scope.  Chapter  3  covers  special  electrical  equipment  in
the workplace and modifies the general requirements of Chap‐
ter 1.
300.2  Responsibility.  The employer shall provide safety-related
work  practices  and  employee  training.  The  employee  shall
follow those work practices.
300.3  Organization.  Chapter  3  of  this  standard  is  divided  into
articles.  Article  300  applies  generally.  Article  310  applies  to
electrolytic  cells.  Article  320  applies  to  batteries  and  battery
rooms.  Article  330  applies  to  lasers.  Article  340  applies  to
power  electronic  equipment.  Article  350  applies  to  research
and  development  (R&D)  laboratories.
  Article  360  applies  to
safety-related requirements for capacitors.
ARTICLE 310
Safety-Related Work Practices for
Electrolytic Cells
310.1  Scope.  The  requirements  of  this  article  shall  apply  to
the  electrical  safety-related  work  practices  used  in  the  types  of
electrolytic cell areas.
Informational Note No. 1: See Informative Annex L for a typical
application of safeguards in the cell line working zone.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  For  further  information  about  elec‐
trolytic cells, see NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, Article 668.
Informational Note No. 3: For further information about electri‐
cal  safety-related  work  practices  in  electrolytic  cell  lines,  see
IEEE  463,  Electrical  Safety  Practices  in  Electrolytic  Cell  Line  Working
Zones.
310.2 Definitions.  For  the  purposes  of  this  article,  the  defini‐
tions that follow shall apply.
Battery  Effect.    A  voltage  that  exists  on  the  cell  line  after  the
power supply is disconnected.
Informational  Note:  Electrolytic  cells  can  exhibit  characteristics
similar to an electrical storage battery and a shock hazard could
exist after the power supply is disconnected from the cell line.
Safeguarding.  Safeguards for personnel include the consistent
administrative  enforcement  of  safe  work  practices.  Safeguards
include  training  in  safe  work  practices,  cell  line  design,  safety
equipment, PPE, operating procedures, and work checklists.
310.3  Safety Training.
(A)  General.  The  training  requirements  of  this  chapter  shall
apply to employees exposed to electrical hazards in the cell line
working zone defined in 110.6 and shall supplement or modify
the requirements of 110.3, 120.5, 130.1, and 130.9.
(B) Training   Requirements.  Employees   shall   be   trained   to
understand  the  specific  electrical  hazards  associated  with  elec‐
trical  energy  on  the  cell  line.  Employees  shall  be  trained  in
safety-related  work  practices  and  procedural  requirements  to
provide  protection  from  the  electrical  hazards  associated  with
their respective job or task assignment.
310.4  Employee Training.
(A) Qualified Persons.
(1)  Training. Qualified  persons  shall  be  trained  and  knowl‐
edgeable in the operation of cell line working zone equipment
and  specific  work  methods  and  shall  be  trained  to  avoid  the
electrical hazards that are present. Such persons shall be famil‐
iar  with  the  proper  use  of  precautionary  techniques  and  PPE.
Training for a qualified person shall include the following:
(1)Skills and techniques to avoid a shock hazard:
a.Between  exposed  energized  surfaces,  which  might
include  temporarily  insulating  or  guarding  parts  to
permit  the  employee  to  work  on  exposed  energized
parts
b.Between  exposed  energized  surfaces  and  grounded
equipment,   other   grounded   objects,   or   the   earth
itself,  that  might  include  temporarily  insulating  or
guarding  parts  to  permit  the  employee  to  work  on
exposed energized parts
(2)Method  of  determining  the  cell  line  working  zone  area
boundaries
(2) Qualified Persons. Qualified persons shall be permitted to
work within the cell line working zone.
(B) Unqualified Persons.
(1)  Training. Unqualified  persons  shall  be  trained  to  identify
electrical  hazards  to  which  they  could  be  exposed  and  the
proper methods of avoiding the hazards.
(2) In  Cell  Line  Working  Zone.  When  there  is  a  need  for  an
unqualified  person  to  enter  the  cell  line  working  zone  to
perform a specific task, that person shall be advised of the elec‐
trical  hazards  by  the  designated  qualified  person  in  charge  to
ensure that the unqualified person is safeguarded.
310.5 Safeguarding  of  Employees  in  the  Cell  Line  Working
Zone.
(A)  General.  Operation  and  maintenance  of  electrolytic  cell
lines  might  require  contact  by  employees  with  exposed  ener‐
gized surfaces such as buses, electrolytic cells, and their attach‐
ments.  The  approach  distances  referred  to  in  Table  130.4(E)
(a)  and  Table  130.4(E)(b)  shall  not  apply  to  work  performed
by  qualified  persons  in  the  cell  line  working  zone.  Safeguards
such as safety-related work practices and other safeguards shall
be used to protect employees from injury while working in the
cell  line  working  zone.  These  safeguards  shall  be  consistent
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 310 — SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES FOR ELECTROLYTIC CELLS
310.5
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–47
with  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  related  electrical  hazards.
Safeguards  might  be  different  for  energized  cell  lines  and  de-
energized  cell  lines.  Hazardous  battery  effect  voltages  shall  be
dissipated to consider a cell line de-energized.
Informational  Note  No.  1:  Exposed  energized  surfaces  might
not  present  an  electrical  hazard.  Shock  hazards  are  related  to
current through the body, producing possible injury or damage
to health. Shock severity is a function of many factors, including
skin  and  body  resistance,  current  path  through  the  body,  paths
in  parallel  with  the  body,  and  system  voltage.  Arc  flash  burns
and arc blasts are a function of the arcing current and the dura‐
tion of arc exposure.
Informational Note No. 2: A cell line or group of cell lines oper‐
ated  as  a  unit  for  the  production  of  a  particular  metal,  gas,  or
chemical  compound  might  differ  from  other  cell  lines  produc‐
ing the same product because of variations in the particular raw
materials  used,  output  capacity,  use  of  proprietary  methods  or
process  practices,  or  other  modifying  factors.  Detailed  standard
electrical   safety-related   work   practice   requirements   could
become   overly   restrictive   without   accomplishing   the   stated
purpose of Chapter 1.
(B)  Signs.  Permanent  signs  shall  clearly  designate  electrolytic
cell areas.
(C) Arc  Flash  Risk  Assessment.  The  requirements  of  130.5,
Arc Flash Risk Assessment, shall not 
be required for electrolytic
cell line working zones.
(1)  General.  Each  task  performed  in  the  electrolytic  cell  line
working  zone  shall  be  analyzed  for  the  likelihood  of  arc  flash
injury.  If  there  is  a  likelihood  of  personal  injury,  appropriate
measures  shall  be  taken  to  protect  persons  exposed  to  the  arc
flash hazards, including one or more of the following:
(1)Providing  appropriate  PPE  [see  310.5(D)(2)]  to  prevent
injury from the arc flash hazard
(2)Altering  work  procedures  to  reduce  the  likelihood  of
occurrence of an arc flash incident
(3)Scheduling the task so that work can be performed when
the cell line is de-energized
(2) Routine  Tasks.  Arc  flash  risk  assessment  shall  be  done  for
all  routine  tasks  performed  in  the  cell  line  work  zone.  The
results of the arc flash risk assessment shall be used in training
employees  in  job  procedures  that  minimize  the  possibility  of
arc flash hazards. The training shall be included in the require‐
ments of 310.3.
(3) Nonroutine  Tasks.  Before  a  nonroutine  task  is  performed
in the cell line working zone, an arc flash risk assessment shall
be  done.  If  an  arc  flash  hazard  is  a  possibility  during  nonrou‐
tine work, appropriate instructions shall be given to employees
involved on how to minimize the risk associated with arc flash.
(4) Arc  Flash  Hazards.  If  the  likelihood  of  occurrence  of  an
arc  flash  hazard  exists  for  either  routine  or  nonroutine  tasks,
employees shall use appropriate safeguards.
(D)  Safeguards.  Safeguards  shall  include  one  or  a  combina‐
tion of the following means.
(1)  Insulation.  Insulation   shall   be   suitable   for   the   specific
conditions,  and  its  components  shall  be  permitted  to  include
glass,  porcelain,  epoxy  coating,  rubber,  fiberglass,  and  plastic
and,  when  dry,  such  materials  as  concrete,  tile,  brick,  and
wood. Insulation shall be permitted to be applied to energized
or grounded surfaces.
(2) Personal  Protective  Equipment  (PPE).  PPE  shall  provide
protection  from  electrical  hazards.  PPE  shall  include  one  or
more  of  the  following,  as  determined  by  authorized  manage‐
ment:
(1)Footwear for wet service
(2)Gloves for wet service
(3)Sleeves for wet service
(4)Footwear for dry service
(5)Gloves for dry service
(6)Sleeves for dry service
(7)Electrically insulated head protection
(8)Protective clothing
(9)Eye protection with nonconductive frames
(10)Face shield (polycarbonate or similar nonmelting type)
(a)     PPE.  Personal  and  other  protective  equipment  shall
be  appropriate  for  conditions,  as  determined  by  authorized
management.
(b)     Testing  of  PPE.  PPE  shall  be  verified  with  regularity
and  by  methods  that  are  consistent  with  the  exposure  of
employees to electrical hazards.
(3)  Barriers.  Barriers shall be devices that prevent contact with
energized or grounded surfaces that could present an electrical
hazard.
(4) Voltage Equalization.  Voltage equalization shall be permit‐
ted  by  bonding  a  conductive  surface  to  an  exposed  energized
surface, either directly or through a resistance, so that there is
insufficient voltage to create an electrical hazard.
(5)  Isolation.  Isolation  shall  be  established  by  placing  equip‐
ment  or  other  items  in  locations  such  that  employees  are
unable  to  simultaneously  contact  exposed  conductive  surfaces
that could present an electrical hazard.
(6) Safe  Work  Practices.  Employees  shall  be  trained  in  safe
work practices. The training shall include why the work practi‐
ces  in  a  cell  line  working  zone  are  different  from  similar  work
situations  in  other  areas  of  the  plant.  Employees  shall  comply
with established safe work practices and the safe use of protec‐
tive equipment.
(a)     Attitude  Awareness.  Safe  work  practice  training  shall
include  attitude  awareness  instruction.  Simultaneous  contact
with  energized  parts  and  ground  can  cause  serious  electrical
shock.  Of  special  importance  is  the  need  to  be  aware  of  body
position  where  contact  may  be  made  with  energized  parts  of
the electrolytic cell line and grounded surfaces.
(b)     Bypassing of Safety Equipment. Safe work practice train‐
ing  shall  include  techniques  to  prevent  bypassing  the  protec‐
tion   of   safety   equipment.   Clothing   may   bypass   protective
equipment if the clothing is wet. Trouser legs should be kept at
appropriate length, and shirt sleeves should be a good fit so as
not  to  drape  while  reaching.  Jewelry  and  other  metal  accesso‐
ries  that  may  bypass  protective  equipment  shall  not  be  worn
while working in the cell line working zone.
(7)  Tools.  Tools  and  other  devices  used  in  the  energized  cell
line  work  zone  shall  be  selected  to  prevent  bridging  between
surfaces at hazardous potential difference.
Informational  Note:  Tools  and  other  devices  of  magnetic  mate‐
rial  could  be  difficult  to  handle  in  the  area  of  energized  cells
due to their strong dc magnetic fields.
(8) Portable    Cutout-Type    Switches.  Portable    cell    cutout
switches  that  are  connected  shall  be  considered  as  energized
and as an extension of the cell line working zone. Appropriate
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 320 — SAFETY REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO BATTERIES AND BATTERY ROOMS
310.5
70E–48
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
procedures   shall   be   used   to   ensure   proper   cutout   switch
connection and operation.
(9) Cranes   and   Hoists.  Cranes   and   hoists   shall   meet   the
requirements  of  applicable  codes  and  standards  to  safeguard
employees.  Insulation  required  for  safeguarding  employees,
such as insulated crane hooks, shall be periodically tested.
(10)  Attachments.  Attachments  that  extend  the  cell  line  elec‐
trical  hazards  beyond  the  cell  line  working  zone  shall  use  one
or more of the following:
(1)Temporary or permanent extension of the cell line work‐
ing zone
(2)Barriers
(3)Insulating breaks
(4)Isolation
(11) Pacemakers    and    Metallic    Implants.  Employees    with
implanted   pacemakers,   ferromagnetic   medical   devices,   or
other  electronic  devices  vital  to  life  shall  not  be  permitted  in
cell   areas   unless   written   permission   is   obtained   from   the
employee’s physician.
Informational  Note:  The  American  Conference  of  Governmen‐
tal  Industrial  Hygienists  (ACGIH)  and  IEEE  463,  Electrical  Safety
Practices  in  Electrolytic  Cell  Line  Working  Zones,  recommend  that
persons  with  implanted  pacemakers  should  not  be  exposed  to
magnetic flux densities above 5 gauss.
(12)  Testing.  Equipment  safeguards  for  employee  protection
shall be tested to ensure they are in a safe working condition.
310.6  Portable Tools and Equipment.
Informational  Note:  The  order  of  preference  for  the  energy
source for portable hand-held equipment is considered to be as
follows:
(1)
Battery power
(2)Pneumatic power
(3)Portable generator
(4)Nongrounded-type  receptacle  connected  to  an  ungroun‐
ded source
(A) Portable  Electrical  Equipment.  The  grounding  require‐
ments  of  110.9(B)  shall  not  be  permitted  within  an  energized
cell line working zone. Portable electrical equipment and asso‐
ciated  power  supplies  shall  meet  the  requirements  of  applica‐
ble codes and standards.
(B) Auxiliary  Nonelectric  Connections.  Auxiliary  nonelectric
connections  such  as  air,  water,  and  gas  hoses  shall  meet  the
requirements  of  applicable  codes  and  standards.  Pneumatic-
powered  tools  and  equipment  shall  be  supplied  with  noncon‐
ductive air hoses in the cell line working zone.
(C) Welding   Machines.  Welding   machine   frames   shall   be
considered  at  cell  potential  when  within  the  cell  line  working
zone.  Safety-related  work  practices  shall  require  that  the  cell
line  not  be  grounded  through  the  welding  machine  or  its
power  supply.  Welding  machines  located  outside  the  cell  line
working  zone  shall  be  barricaded  to  prevent  employees  from
touching  the  welding  machine  and  ground  simultaneously
where the welding cables are in the cell line working zone.
(D) Portable  Test  Equipment.  Test  equipment  in  the  cell  line
working   zone   shall   be   suitable   for   use   in   areas   of   large
magnetic fields and orientation.
Informational  Note:  Test  equipment  that  is  not  suitable  for  use
in  such  magnetic  fields  could  result  in  an  incorrect  response.
When  such  test  equipment  is  removed  from  the  cell  line  work‐
ing  zone,  its  performance  might  return  to  normal,  giving  the
false impression that the results were correct.
ARTICLE 320
Safety Requirements Related to Batteries
and Battery Rooms
320.1  Scope.  This  article  covers  electrical  safety  requirements
for the practical safeguarding of employees while working with
exposed stationary storage batteries that exceed 50 volts, nomi‐
nal.
Informational  Note:  For  additional  information  on  best  practi‐
ces  for  safely  working  on  stationary  batteries,  see  the  following
documents:
(1)
NFPA 1, Fire Code, Chapter 52, Stationary Storage Battery
Systems, 2015
(2)NFPA  70,  National  Electrical  Code,  Article  480,  Storage
Batteries, 2014
(3)IEEE 450, IEEE Recommended Practice for Maintenance, Test‐
ing, and Replacement of Vented Lead-Acid Batteries for Station‐
ary Applications, 2010
(4)IEEE 937, Recommended Practice for Installation and Mainte‐
nance of Lead-Acid Batteries for Photovoltaic Systems, 2007
(5)IEEE   1106,   IEEE   Recommended   Practice   for   Installation,
Maintenance,   Testing,   and   Replacement   of   Vented   Nickel-
Cadmium    Batteries    for    Stationary    Applications,    2005
(R 2011)
(6)IEEE 1184, IEEE Guide for Batteries for Uninterruptible Power
Supply Systems, 2006 (R 2011)
(7)IEEE  1188,  IEEE  Recommended  Practice  for  Maintenance,
Testing,    and    Replacement    of    Valve-Regulated    Lead-Acid
(VRLA) Batteries for Stationary Applications, 1188a-2014
(8)IEEE  1657,  Recommended  Practice  for  Personnel  Qualifica‐
tions for Installation and Maintenance of Stationary Batteries,
2009
(9)OSHA 29 CFR 1910.305(j)(7), “Storage batteries”
(10)OSHA 29 CFR 1926.441, “Batteries and battery charging”
(11)DHHS   (NIOSH)   Publication   No.   94-110,   Applications
Manual for the Revised NIOSH Lifting Equation, 1994
(12)IEEE/ASHRAE 1635, Guide for the Ventilation and Thermal
Management of Batteries for Stationary Applications, 2012
320.2 Definitions.  For  the  purposes  of  this  article  definitions
that follow shall apply.
Authorized  Personnel.    The  person  in  charge  of  the  premises,
or other persons appointed or selected by the person in charge
of  the  premises  who  performs  certain  duties  associated  with
stationary storage batteries.
Battery.    A  system  consisting  of  two  or  more  electrochemical
cells connected in series or parallel and capable of storing elec‐
trical energy received and that can give it back by reconversion.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 320 — SAFETY REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO BATTERIES AND BATTERY ROOMS
320.3
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–49
Battery  Room.    A  room  specifically  intended  for  the  installa‐
tion of batteries that have no other protective enclosure.
Cell.    The  basic  electrochemical  unit,  characterized  by  an
anode and a cathode used to receive, store, and deliver electri‐
cal energy.
Electrolyte.    A  solid,  liquid,  or  aqueous  immobilized  liquid
medium  that  provides  the  ion  transport  mechanism  between
the positive and negative electrodes of a cell.
Nominal  Voltage.    The  value  assigned  to  a  cell  or  battery  of  a
given  voltage  class  for  the  purpose  of  convenient  designation;
the  operating  voltage  of  the  cell  or  system  may  vary  above  or
below this value.
Pilot Cell.   One or more cells chosen to represent the operat‐
ing   parameters   of   the   entire   battery   (sometimes   called
“temperature reference” cell).
Prospective  Short-Circuit  Current.    The  highest  level  of  fault
current  that  could  theoretically  occur  at  a  point  on  a  circuit.
This  is  the  fault  current  that  can  flow  in  the  event  of  a  zero
impedance short circuit and if no protection devices operate.
Informational  Note:  Some  batteries  have  built-in  management
devices  to  limit  maximum  short-circuit  current.  The  determina‐
tion  of  the  prospective  short-circuit  current  for  these  batteries
assumes that the internal battery management system protection
devices are operable.
Valve-Regulated Lead Acid (VRLA) Cell.  A lead-acid cell that is
sealed  with  the  exception  of  a  valve  that  opens  to  the  atmos‐
phere  when  the  internal  pressure  in  the  cell  exceeds  atmos‐
pheric  pressure  by  a  pre-selected  amount,  and  that  provides  a
means  for  recombination  of  internally  generated  oxygen  and
the   suppression   of   hydrogen   gas   evolution   to   limit   water
consumption.
Vented Cell.  A type of cell in which the products of electrolysis
and  evaporation  are  allowed  to  escape  freely  into  the  atmos‐
phere as they are generated. (Also called “flooded cell.”)
320.3  Safety Procedures.
(A)  General Safety Hazards.
(1) Energy   Thresholds.  Energy   exposure   levels   shall   not
exceed those identified in the following list unless appropriate
controls are implemented:
(1)AC: 50 volts and 5 milliamperes
(2)DC: 100 volts
Informational  Note:  This  information  is  extracted  from  the
Department of Energy (DOE) Electrical Safety Handbook, DOE-
HDBK-1092.
(2) Battery  Risk  Assessment.  Prior  to  any  work  on  a  battery
system,  a  risk  assessment  shall  be  performed  to  identify  the
chemical, electrical shock, and arc flash hazards and assess the
risks associated with the type of tasks to be performed.
Informational   Note:   For   an   example   of   a   risk   assessment
method for work on batteries, see F.7 and Figure F.7 in Informa‐
tive Annex F.
(3)  Battery Room or Enclosure Requirements.
(a)     Personnel   Access   to   Energized   Batteries.   Each   battery
room  or  battery  enclosure  shall  be  accessible  only  to  author‐
ized personnel.
(b)     Illumination.    Employees    shall    not    enter    spaces
containing   batteries   unless   illumination   is   provided   that
enables the employees to perform the work safely.
Informational Note: Battery terminals are normally exposed and
pose  possible  shock  hazard.  Batteries  are  also  installed  in  steps
or tiers that can cause obstructions.
(4)  Apparel.  Personnel  shall  not  wear  electrically  conductive
objects such as jewelry while working on a battery system.
(5) Abnormal     Battery     Conditions.  Instrumentation     that
provides  alarms  for  early  warning  of  abnormal  conditions  of
battery operation, if present, shall be tested annually.
Informational Note: Battery monitoring systems typically include
alarms  for  such  conditions  as  overvoltage,  undervoltage,  over‐
current,  ground  fault,  and  overtemperature.  The  type  of  condi‐
tions    monitored    will    vary    depending    upon    the    battery
technology.  One  source  of  guidance  on  monitoring  battery
systems is IEEE 1491, Guide for the Selection and Use of Battery Moni‐
toring Equipment in Stationary Applications.
(6) Warning Signs.  The following warning signs or labels shall
be posted in appropriate locations:
(1)Electrical  hazard  warnings  indicating  the  shock  hazard
due to the battery voltage and the arc flash hazard due to
the  prospective  short-circuit  current,  and  the  thermal
hazard.
Informational Note No.1: Because internal resistance, prospec‐
tive short-circuit current, or both are not always provided on
battery container labels or data sheets, and because many varia‐
bles can be introduced into a battery layout, the battery manu‐
facturer should be consulted for accurate data. Variables can
include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)Series connections
(2)Parallel connections
(3)Charging methodology
(4)Temperature
(5)Charge status
(6)Dc distribution cable size and length
Informational Note No. 2: See 130.5(D) for requirements
for equipment labeling.
(2)Chemical  hazard  warnings,  applicable  to  the  worst  case
when  multiple  battery  types  are  installed  in  the  same
space, indicating the following:
a.Potential  presence  of  explosive  gas  (when  applicable
to the battery type)
b.Prohibition of open flame and smoking
c.Danger of chemical burns from the electrolyte (when
applicable to the battery type)
(3)Notice  for  personnel  to  use  and  wear  protective  equip‐
ment  and  apparel  appropriate  to  the  hazard  for  the
battery
(4)Notice prohibiting access to unauthorized personnel
(B)  Electrolyte Hazards.
(1) Battery Activities That Include Handling of Liquid Electro‐
lyte.  The  following  protective  equipment  shall  be  available  to
employees  performing  any  type  of  service  on  a  battery  with
liquid electrolyte:
(1)Goggles  and  face  shield  appropriate  for  the  electrical
hazard and the chemical hazard
(2)Gloves and aprons appropriate for the chemical hazards
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 330 — SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES: LASERS
320.3
70E–50
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
(3)Portable  or  stationary  eye  wash  facilities  and  equipment
within  the  work  area  that  are  capable  of  drenching  or
flushing  of  the  eyes  and  body  for  the  duration  necessary
to mitigate injury from the electrolyte hazard.
Informational Note: Guidelines for the use and maintenance of
eye wash facilities for vented batteries in nontelecom environ‐
ments can be found in ANSI/ISEA Z358.1, American National
Standard for Emergency Eye Wash and Shower Equipment.
(2) Activities  That  Do  Not  Include  Handling  of  Electrolyte.
Employees  performing  any  activity  not  involving  the  handling
of electrolyte shall wear safety glasses.
Informational  Note:  Battery  maintenance  activities  usually  do
not  involve  handling  electrolyte.  Batteries  
that  are  hermetically
sealed  (such  as  most  lithium  batteries)  or  immobilized  electro‐
lyte (such as valve-regulated lead acid batteries) present little or
no  electrolyte  hazard.  Most  modern  density  meters  expose  a
worker  to  a  quantity  of  electrolyte  too  minute  to  be  considered
hazardous,   if   at   all.   Such   work   would   not   be   considered
handling  electrolyte.  However,  if  specific  gravity  readings  are
taken using a bulb hydrometer, the risk of exposure is higher —
this  could  be  considered  to  be  handling  electrolyte,  and  the
requirements of 320.3(B)(1) would apply.
(C) 
Tools and Equipment.
N(1)  Handles.  Tools  and  equipment  for  work  on  batteries  shall
be equipped with handles listed as insulated for the maximum
working voltage.
N(2)  Contact.  Battery  terminals  and  all  electrical  conductors
shall be kept clear of unintended contact with tools, test equip‐
ment, liquid containers, and other foreign objects.
N(3) Nonsparking  Tools.  Nonsparking  tools  shall  be  required
when  the  risk  assessment  required  by  110.5(H)  justifies  their
use.
•
(D) Cell  Flame  Arresters  and  Cell  Ventilation.  When  present,
battery  cell  ventilation  openings  shall  be  unobstructed.  Cell
flame  arresters  shall  be  inspected  for  proper  installation  and
unobstructed ventilation and shall be replaced when necessary
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
ARTICLE 330
Safety-Related Work Practices: Lasers
330.1  Scope.  This  article  applies  to  safety-related  work  practi‐
ces for maintaining lasers and their associated equipment.
Informational Note No. 1: For recommendations on laser safety
requirements for laser use, see ANSI Z136.1, Standard for Safe Use
of Lasers.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  For  laser  product  requirements  for
laser manufacturers, see 21 CFR Part 1040, “Performance Stand‐
ards for Light-Emitting Products,” Sections 1040.10 “Laser prod‐
ucts” and 1040.11, “Specific purpose laser products.”
330.2 Definitions.  For  the  purposes  of  this  article,  the  follow‐
ing definitions shall apply.
Field  Evaluated.    A  thorough  evaluation  of  nonlisted  or  modi‐
fied  equipment  in  the  field  that  is  performed  by  persons  or
parties acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
Informational  Note:  The  evaluation  approval  ensures  that  the
equipment meets appropriate codes and standards or is similarly
found suitable for a specified purpose.
Laser.    A  device  that  produces  radiant  energy  at  wavelengths
between 180 nm (nanometer) and 1 mm (millimeter) predom‐
inantly  by  controlled  stimulated  emission.  Laser  radiation  can
be highly coherent temporally, spatially, or both.
Laser Energy Source.  Any device intended for use in conjunc‐
tion  with  a  laser  to  supply  energy  for  the  excitation  of  elec‐
trons, ions, or molecules.
Laser  Radiation.    All  electromagnetic  radiation  emitted  by  a
laser or laser system between 180 nm (nanometers) and 1 mm
(millimeters) that is produced as a result of a controlled stimu‐
lated emission.
Laser System.  A laser in combination with an appropriate laser
energy source with or without additional incorporated compo‐
nents.
Protective Barrier.  Prevents user access to a hazardous voltage,
current, or stored energy area.
330.3  Hazardous Energy.
(A) Voltage  and  Current.  For  the  purpose  of  this  section,
hazardous  voltage  and  current  for  ac  systems  is  considered
greater  than  or  equal  to  50  volts  ac  and  5  mA.  For  dc  systems,
hazardous  voltage  or  current  is  considered  greater  than  or
equal to 100 volts dc and 40 mA.
(B) Stored  Energy.  For  the  purpose  of  this  article,  hazardous
stored energy is considered greater than or equal to 0.25 joules
at 400 volts or greater, or 1 joule at greater than 100 volts up to
400 volts.
330.4  Electrical Safety Training.
(A) Personnel to Be Trained.  Employers shall provide training
for  all  personnel  who  work  on  or  are  near  lasers  or  laser
systems   with   user-accessible   hazardous   voltage,   current,   or
stored energy (e.g., flashlamp-pumped lasers).
(B) Electrical  Safety  Training  for  Work  on  or  with  Lasers.
Training  in  electrical  safe  work  practices  shall  include,  but  is
not limited to, the following:
(1)Chapter 1 electrical safe work practices
(2)Electrical hazards associated with laser equipment
(3)Stored  energy  hazards,  including  capacitor  bank  explo‐
sion potential
(4)Ionizing radiation
(5)X-ray hazards from high-voltage equipment (>5 kV)
(6)Assessing  the  listing  status  of  electrical  equipment  and
the need for field evaluation of nonlisted equipment
330.5 Safeguarding of Persons from Electrical Hazards Associ‐
ated with Lasers and Laser Systems.
(A) Temporary  Guarding.  Temporary  guarding  (e.g.,  covers,
protective insulating barriers) shall be used to limit exposure to
any  electrical  hazard  when  the  permanent  laser  enclosure
covers are removed for maintenance and testing.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 340 — SAFETY-RELATED WORK PRACTICES: POWER ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
340.5
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–51
(B) Work Requiring an Electrically Safe Work Condition.  Work
that  might  expose  employees  to  electrical  hazards  shall  be
performed  with  the  equipment  in  an  electrically  safe  work
condition in accordance with 120.1, 120.2, and 110.3.
(C) Energized  Electrical  Testing.  Energized  electrical  testing,
troubleshooting,  and  voltage  testing  shall  not  require  an  ener‐
gized work permit in accordance with 130.2(C).
(D) Warning  Signs  and  Labels.  Electrical  safety  warning  signs
and labels shall be posted as applicable on electrical equipment
doors,  covers,  and  protective  barriers.  The  warning  signs  and
labels shall adequately warn of the hazard using effective words,
colors,  and  symbols.  These  signs  and  labels  shall  be  perma‐
nently affixed to the equipment and shall be of sufficient dura‐
bility to withstand the environment involved.
(E)  Listing.  Laser  system  electrical  equipment  shall  be  listed
or field evaluated prior to use.
330.6 Responsibility   for   Electrical   Safety.  All   persons   with
access  to  hazardous  voltage,  current,  or  stored  energy  shall  be
responsible for the following:
(1)Obtaining  authorization  for  work  with  or  on  hazardous
electrical equipment in lasers and laser systems
(2)Use of Chapter 1 safety-related work practices
(3)Reporting laser equipment failures, accidents, inadequate
barriers, and inadequate signage to the employer
ARTICLE 340
Safety-Related Work Practices: Power
Electronic Equipment
340.1  Scope.  This  article  shall  apply  to  safety-related  work
practices  around  power  electronic  equipment,  including  the
following:
(1)Electric arc welding equipment
(2)High-power   radio,   radar,   and   television   transmitting
towers and antennas
(3)Industrial  dielectric  and  radio  frequency  (RF)  induction
heaters
(4)Shortwave or RF diathermy devices
(5)Process  equipment  that  includes  rectifiers  and  inverters
such as the following:
a.Motor drives
b.Uninterruptible power supply systems
c.Lighting controllers
Informational  Note:  The  following  standards  provide  specific
guidance  for  safety-related  work  practices  around  power  elec‐
tronic  equipment:  International  Electrotechnical  Commission
IEC  60479-1,  Effects  of  Current  on  Human  Beings  and  Livestock,
Part  1:  General  Aspects,  and  the  International  Commission  on
Radiological Protection (ICRP) Publication 33, Protection Against
Ionizing Radiation from External Sources Used in Medicine.
340.2 Definition.  For  the  purposes  of  this  article,  the  defini‐
tion that follows shall apply.
Radiation Worker.  A person who is required to work in electro‐
magnetic  fields,  the  radiation  levels  of  which  exceed  those
specified for nonoccupational exposure.
340.3  Application.  The  purpose  of  this  article  is  to  provide
guidance  for  safety  personnel  in  preparing  specific  safety-
related work practices within their industry.
340.4 Hazards  Associated  with  Power  Electronic  Equipment.
The  employer  and  employees  shall  be  aware  of  the  hazards
associated with the following:
(1)High voltages within the power supplies
(2)Radio frequency energy–induced high voltages
(3)Effects   of   RF   fields   in   the   vicinity   of   antennas   and
antenna  transmission  lines,  which  can  introduce  electri‐
cal shock and burns
(4)Ionizing  (X-radiation)  hazards  from  magnetrons,  klys‐
trons, thyratrons, cathode-ray tubes, and similar devices
(5)Nonionizing RF radiation hazards from the following:
a.Radar equipment
b.Radio  communication  equipment,  including  broad‐
cast transmitters
c.Satellite–earth-transmitters
d.Industrial scientific and medical equipment
e.RF induction heaters and dielectric heaters
f.Industrial microwave heaters and diathermy radiators
340.5 Specific Measures for Personnel Safety.
(A) Employer  Responsibility.  The  employer  shall  be  responsi‐
ble for the following:
(1)Proper  training  and  supervision  by  properly  qualified
personnel, including the following:
a.Identification of associated hazards
b.Strategies   to   reduce   the   risk   associated   with   the
hazards
c.Methods of avoiding or protecting against the hazard
d.Necessity of reporting any incident that resulted in, or
could have resulted in, injury or damage to health
(2)Properly installed equipment
(3)Proper access to the equipment
(4)Availability of the correct tools for operation and mainte‐
nance
(5)Proper  identification  and  guarding  of  dangerous  equip‐
ment
(6)Provision  of  complete  and  accurate  circuit  diagrams  and
other published information to the employee prior to the
employee  starting  work  (The  circuit  diagrams  should  be
marked to indicate the components that present an elec‐
trical hazard.)
(7)Maintenance  of  clear  and  clean  work  areas  around  the
equipment to be worked on
(8)Provision  of  adequate  and  proper  illumination  of  the
work area
(B) Employee Responsibility.  The employee shall be responsi‐
ble for the following:
(1)Understanding the hazards associated with the work
(2)Being   continuously   alert   and   aware   of   the   possible
hazards
(3)Using the proper tools and procedures for the work
(4)Informing  the  employer  of  malfunctioning  protective
measures,  such  as  faulty  or  inoperable  enclosures  and
locking schemes
(5)Examining all documents provided by the employer rele‐
vant  to  the  work  to  identify  the    location  of  components
that present an electrical hazard
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 350 — SAFETY-RELATED WORK REQUIREMENTS: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
350.1
70E–52
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
(6)Maintaining  good  housekeeping  around  the  equipment
and work space
(7)Reporting  any  incident  that  resulted  in,  or  could  have
resulted in, injury or damage to health
(8)Using  and  appropriately  maintaining  the  PPE  and  tools
required to perform the work safely
ARTICLE 350
Safety-Related Work Requirements:
Research and Development Laboratories
350.1  Scope.  The  requirements  of  this  article  shall  apply  to
the electrical installations in those areas, with custom or special
electrical  equipment,  designated  by  the  facility  management
for research and development (R&D) or as laboratories.
350.2 Definitions.  For  the  purposes  of  this  article,  the  defini‐
tions that follow shall apply.
Competent  Person.    A  person  who  meets  all  the  requirements
of qualified person, as defined in Article 100 in Chapter 1 of this
standard and who, in addition, is responsible for all work activi‐
ties  or  safety  procedures  related  to  custom  or  special  equip‐
ment  and  has  detailed  knowledge  regarding  the  exposure  to
electrical  hazards,  the  appropriate  control  methods  to  reduce
the risk associated with those hazards, and the implementation
of those methods.
Field  Evaluated.    A  thorough  evaluation  of  nonlisted  or  modi‐
fied  equipment  in  the  field  that  is  performed  by  persons  or
parties  acceptable  to  the  authority  having  jurisdiction.  The
evaluation  approval  ensures  that  the  equipment  meets  appro‐
priate  codes  and  standards,  or  is  similarly  found  suitable  for  a
specified purpose.
Informational  Note:  For  additional  information  on  recommen‐
ded  practices  and  procedures  for  the  field  evaluation  of  nonlis‐
ted   equipment,   see   NFPA   791,   Recommended   Practice   and
Procedures for Unlabeled Electrical Equipment Evaluation. For help in
evaluating  whether  third-party  entities  are  acceptable  to  an
authority  having  jurisdiction,  see  NFPA  790,  Standard  for  Compe‐
tency of Third-Party, Field Evaluation Bodies.
Laboratory.  A building, space, room, or group of rooms inten‐
ded  to  serve  activities  involving  procedures  for  investigation,
diagnostics, product testing, or use of custom or special electri‐
cal components, systems, or equipment.
Research  and  Development  (R&D).    An  activity  in  an  installa‐
tion   specifically   designated   for   research   or   development
conducted with custom or special electrical equipment.
350.3 Applications of Other Articles.  The electrical system for
R&D  and  laboratory  applications  shall  meet  the  requirements
of the remainder of this document, except as amended by Arti‐
cle 350.
Informational Note: Examples of these applications include low-
voltage–high-current   power   systems;   high-voltage–low-current
power  systems;  dc  power  supplies;  capacitors;  cable  trays  for
signal cables and other systems, such as steam, water, air, gas, or
drainage; and custom-made electronic equipment.
350.4 Electrical  Safety  Authority  (ESA).  Each  laboratory  or
R&D system application shall be permitted to assign an ESA to
ensure  the  use  of  appropriate  electrical  safety-related  work
practices  and  controls.  The  ESA  shall  be  permitted  to  be
an electrical safety committee, engineer, or equivalent qualified
individual. The ESA shall be permitted to delegate authority to
an individual or organization within their control.
(A)  Responsibility.  The ESA shall act in a manner similar to an
authority  having  jurisdiction  for  R&D  electrical  systems  and
electrical safe work practices.
(B) Qualifications.  The ESA shall be competent in the follow‐
ing:
(1)The requirements of this standard
(2)Electrical  system  requirements  applicable  to  the  R&D
laboratories
350.5 Specific  Measures  and  Controls  for  Personnel  Safety.
Each  laboratory  or  R&D  system  application  shall  designate  a
competent person as defined in this article to ensure the use of
appropriate    electrical    safety-related    work    practices    and
controls.
(A) Job  Briefings.  Job  briefings  shall  be  performed  in  accord‐
ance with 110.5(I).
Exception: Prior to starting work, a brief discussion shall be permitted if
the  task  and  hazards  are  documented  and  the  employee  has  reviewed
applicable documentation and is qualified for the task.
(B) Personnel  Protection.  Safety-related  work  practices  shall
be  used  to  safeguard  employees  from  injury  while  they  are
exposed  to  electrical  hazards  from  exposed  electrical  conduc‐
tors  or  circuit  parts  that  are  or  can  become  energized.  The
specific safety-related work practices shall be consistent with the
electrical hazard(s) and the associated risk. For calibration and
adjustment   of   equipment   as   it   pertains   to   sensors,   motor
controllers,  control  hardware,  and  other  devices  that  need  to
be  installed  inside  equipment  or  control  cabinet,  surrounded
by  electrical  hazards,  the  ESA  shall  define  the  required  PPE
based on the risk and exposure.
Use of electrical insulating blankets, covers, or barriers shall
be  permitted  to  prevent  inadvertent  contact  to  exposed  termi‐
nals and conductors. Insulated/nonconductive adjustment and
alignment tools shall be used where feasible.
350.6 Approval   Requirements.  The   equipment   or   systems
used  in  the  R&D  area  or  in  the  laboratory  shall  be  listed  or
field evaluated prior to use.
Informational Note: Laboratory and R&D equipment or systems
can  pose  unique  electrical  hazards  that  might  require  mitiga‐
tion.  Such  hazards  include  ac  and  dc,  low  voltage  and  high
amperage,  high  voltage  and  low  current,  large  electromagnetic
fields, induced voltages, pulsed power, multiple frequencies, and
similar exposures.
350.7 Custom     Built,     Non-Listed     Research     Equipment,
1000 Volts or less AC or DC.
(A)  Equipment Marking and Documentation.
(1)  Marking.  Marking  of  equipment  shall  be  required  for,  but
not  limited  to,  equipment  fabricated,  designed,  or  developed
for  research  testing  and  evaluation  of  electrical  systems.  Mark‐
ing   shall   sufficiently   list   all   voltages   entering   and   leaving
control cabinets, enclosures, and equipment.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 360 — SAFETY-RELATED REQUIREMENTS FOR CAPACITORS
360.2
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–53
Caution,  Warning,  or  Danger  labels  shall  be  affixed  to  the
exterior describing specific hazards and safety concerns.
Informational  Note:  Refer  to  ANSI  Z535,  Series  of  Standards  for
Safety  Signs  and  Tags,  for  more  information  on  precautionary
marking of electrical systems or equipment.
(2)  Documentation. Sufficient  documentation  shall  be  provi‐
ded and readily available to personnel that install, operate, and
maintain equipment that describes operation, shutdown, safety
concerns, and nonstandard installations.
Schematics, drawings, and bill of materials describing power
feeds, voltages, currents, and parts used for construction, main‐
tenance, and operation of the equipment shall be provided.
(3) Shutdown   Procedures.  Safety   requirements   and   emer‐
gency  shutdown  procedures  of  equipment  shall  include  lock‐
out/tagout    (LOTO)    requirements.    If    equipment-specific
LOTO  is  required,  then  documentation  outlining  this  proce‐
dure and PPE requirements shall be made readily available.
(4) Specific  Hazards. Specific  hazards,  other  than  electrical,
associated  with  research  equipment  shall  be  documented  and
readily available.
(5)  Approvals.  Drawings,   standard   operational   procedures,
and  equipment  shall  be  approved  by  the  ESA  on  site  before
initial   startup.   Assembly   of   equipment   shall   comply   with
national  standards  where  applicable  unless  research  applica‐
tion  requires  exceptions.  Equipment  that  does  not  meet  the
applicable  standards  shall  be  required  to  be  approved  by  the
ESA.  Proper  safety  shutdown  procedures  and  PPE  require‐
ments shall be considered in the absence of grounding and/or
bonding.
(B) Tools,  Training,  and  Maintenance.  Documentation  shall
be  provided  if  special  tools,  unusual  PPE,  or  other  equipment
is  necessary  for  proper  maintenance  and  operation  of  equip‐
ment.  The  ESA  shall  make  the  determination  of  appropriate
training and qualifications required to perform specific tasks.
350.8 Custom  Built,  Unlisted  Research  Equipment,  >1000  V
AC  or  DC.  Installations  shall  comply  with  all  requirements  of
350.7.
In  the  event  that  research  equipment  requires  PPE  beyond
what  is  commercially  available,  the  ESA  shall  determine  safe
work practices and PPE to be used.
Δ350.9 Energy  Thresholds.  Energy  exposure  levels  shall  not
exceed those identified in the following list unless appropriate
controls are implemented as approved by the ESA:
(1)AC: 50 volts and 5 milliamperes
(2)DC: 100 volts and 40 milliamperes
Informational  Note  No.  1:  This  information  is  extracted  from
the  Department  of  Energy,  DOE  Electrical  Safety  Handbook,  DOE-
HDBK-1092.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  See  360.3  and  Informative  Annex  R
for information on capacitor hazards and controls.
350.10 Establishing an Electrically Safe Work Condition.  Ener‐
gized  electrical  conductors  and  circuit  parts  shall  be  put  into
an   electrically   safe   work   condition   before   an   employee
performs work.
Exception: At the discretion of the ESA, alternative methods of ensuring
worker  safety  shall  be  permitted  to  be  employed  for  the  following  condi‐
tions:
(1)Minor tool changes and adjustments, and other normal produc‐
tion  operations  that  are  routine,  repetitive,  or  sequential  and
integral to the use of the equipment for production
(2)Minor  changes  to  the  unit  under  test  and  other  minor  servicing
activities, to include the activities listed under 350.10 Exception
condition (1), that take place during research and development
(3)Work  on  cord-and-plug-connected  equipment  for  which  exposure
to the hazards of unexpected energization or start up is controlled
by the following:
a.Unplugging the equipment from the energy source
b.The  employee  performing  the  work  maintaining  exclusive
control of the plug
N
ARTICLE 360
Safety-Related Requirements for
Capacitors
N360.1  Scope.  This  article  covers  the  electrical  safety-related
requirements for the practical safeguarding of employees while
working with capacitors that present an electrical hazard.
Informational  Note:  For  more  information  on  working  safely
with capacitors, see Informative Annex R, Working with Capaci‐
tors.
N360.2 Definitions.
NArc  Blast  Hazard.    A  source  of  possible  injury  or  damage  to
health  from  the  energy  deposited  into  acoustical  shock-wave
and high-velocity shrapnel.
NBleed Resistor.  A resistor network connected in parallel with a
capacitor’s  terminals  that  drains  the  charge  after  power  has
been disconnected.
NCharge  Transfer.    Improper  discharging  of  capacitor  networks
that  results  in  transferring  from  one  capacitor  to  another
charge instead of fully discharging the stored energy.
NDielectric  Absorption.    The  property  of  certain  capacitors  to
recharge after being discharged.
Informational Note: A voltage recharge of up to 10 percent can
occur a few minutes after the grounding or shorting device has
been removed.
NDischarge Time.  The time required to discharge a capacitor to
below a stored energy hazard threshold.
NGround  Stick.    A  device  that  is  used  to  ensure  that  the  capaci‐
tor is discharged by applying it to all terminals of the capacitor
element.
Informational Note: This is also called a ground hook and could
incorporate   power-rated   discharge   resistors   for   high-energy
applications.
NHard Grounding (Low-Z).  The practice of discharging a capac‐
itor  through  a  low  impedance,  also  called  Low-Z  (impedance)
grounding.
NHearing  Protection  Boundary.    Worker  distance  at  which  a
1  percent  probability  of  ear  damage  exists  from  a  20  kPa
(3.0 psi) shock wave.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 360 — SAFETY-RELATED REQUIREMENTS FOR CAPACITORS
360.3
70E–54
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
NLung   Protection   Boundary.      Worker   distance   at   which   a
1  percent  probability  of  lung  damage  exists  from  a  70  kPa
(10 psi) shock wave.
NSoft Grounding (High-Z).  The practice of connecting a capaci‐
tor  to  ground  through  a  power  resistor  to  avoid  the  hazards
related with hard grounding.
NTime  Constant.    The  time  it  takes  for  voltage  to  drop  by
~63 percent (1/e) during discharge.
N360.3 Stored Energy Hazard Thresholds.  Appropriate controls
shall  be  applied  where  any  of  the  following  hazard  thresholds
are exceeded:
(1)Less  than  100  volts  and  greater  than  100  joules  of  stored
energy
(2)Greater  than  or  equal  to  100  volts  and  greater  than  1.0
joule of stored energy
(3)Greater  than  or  equal  to  400  volts  and  greater  than  0.25
joules of stored energy
N360.4 Specific Measures for Personnel Safety.
N(A) Qualification  and  Training.  The  following  qualifications
and training shall be required for personnel safety:
(1)Employees  who  perform  work  on  electrical  equipment
with capacitors that exceed the energy thresholds in 360.3
shall  be  qualified  and  shall  be  trained  in,  and  familiar
with,  the  specific  hazards  and  controls  required  for  safe
work.
(2)Unqualified   persons   who   perform   work   on   electrical
equipment  with  capacitors  shall  be  trained  in,  and  famil‐
iar with, any electrical safety-related work practices neces‐
sary for their safety.
N(B) Performing  a  Risk  Assessment  for  Capacitors.  The  risk
assessment  process  for  capacitors  shall  follow  the  overall  risk
assessment  procedures  in  Chapter  1.  If  additional  protective
measures are required, they shall be selected and implemented
according   to   the   hierarchy   of   risk   control   identified   in
110.5(H)(3). When the additional protective measures include
the use of PPE, the following shall be determined:
(1)Capacitor voltage and stored energy for the worker expo‐
sure.  An  exposure  shall  be  considered  to  exist  when  a
conductor  or  circuit  part  that  could  potentially  remain
energized with hazardous stored energy is exposed.
(2)Thermal  hazard.  The  appropriate  thermal  PPE  shall  be
selected and used if the stored energy of the exposed part
is greater 100 joules.
(3)Shock hazard. The appropriate shock PPE in accordance
with  130.7  shall  be  selected  and  used  if  the  voltage  is
greater than or equal to 100 volts.
(4)Arc flash and arc blast hazard at the appropriate working
distance. The appropriate protection for the arc flash and
arc blast hazard shall be selected, as follows:
(a)     Arc flash PPE in accordance with 130.7 shall be selec‐
ted and used if the incident energy exceeds 1.2 cal/cm
2
(5 J/cm
2
) at the working distance.
(b)     Hearing protection shall be required where the
stored energy exceeds 100 joules.
(c)     The lung protection boundary shall be determined if
stored energy is above 122 kJ. Employees shall not enter the
lung protection boundary.
(d)     Alerting techniques in accordance with 130.7(E)
shall be used to warn employees of the hazards.
(5)Required  test  and  grounding  method.  Soft  grounding
shall  be  used  for  stored  energy  greater  than  1000  joules.
If capacitors are equipped with bleed resistors, or if using
a soft grounding system, the required discharge wait time
shall be determined where applicable.
(6)Develop  a  written  procedure  that  captures  all  of  the
required  steps  to  place  the  equipment  in  an  electrically
safe   work   condition.   Include   information   about   the
amount of stored energy available, how long to wait after
de-energization before opening the enclosure, how to test
for  absence  of  voltage,  and  what  to  do  if  there  is  still
stored energy present.
Informational Note No. 1: For more information on calculating
capacitor  stored  energy,  arc  flash,  and  arc  blast  boundaries,  see
Informative Annex R, Working Safely with Capacitors.
Informational  Note  No.  2:  Heavy  duty  leather  with  a  minimum
thickness of 0.03 in. (0.7 mm) provides protection from thermal
hazards.
N360.5 Establishing  an  Electrically  Safe  Work  Condition  for  a
Capacitor(s).
N(A) Written  Procedure.  Where  a  conductor  or  circuit  part  is
connected  to  a  capacitor(s)  operating  at  or  above  the  thresh‐
olds  in  360.3,  a  written  procedure  shall  be  used  to  document
the necessary steps and sequence to discharge the capacitor(s)
and  place  the  equipment  into  an  electrically  safe  work  condi‐
tion. The written procedure shall incorporate the results of the
risk  assessment  performed  in  360.5(B)  and  specify  the  follow‐
ing at a minimum:
N(B) Safe  Work  Practices.  In  order  to  place  the  capacitor(s)
into an electrically safe work condition, a qualified person shall
use  the  appropriate  safe  work  practices  and  PPE  and  shall
apply  the  following  process  for  establishing  and  verifying  an
electrically safe work condition:
(1)Determine  all  possible  sources  of  electrical  supply  to  the
specific  equipment.  Check  applicable  up-to-date  draw‐
ings, diagrams, and identification tags.
(2)After  properly  interrupting  the  load  current,  open  the
disconnecting device(s) for each source.
(3)Wherever  possible,  visually  verify  that  all  blades  of  the
disconnecting devices are fully open or that drawout-type
circuit  breakers  are  withdrawn  to  the  fully  disconnected
position.
(4)Apply lockout/tagout devices in accordance with a docu‐
mented and established policy.
(5)If bleed resistors or automatic discharge systems are appli‐
cable,  wait  the  prescribed  time  for  the  capacitors  to
discharge   to   less   than   the   thresholds   in   360.3   and
proceed to step (6). For systems without bleed resistors or
automatic   discharge   systems,   discharge   the   capacitors
with  an  adequately  rated  grounding  device  (e.g.,  ground
stick).  Soft  grounding  shall  be  performed  above  1000
joules,  and  remote  soft  grounding  shall  be  performed
above 100 kJ.
(6)Verify  that  the  capacitors  are  discharged.  For  capacitors
less than 1000 joules, verification shall be permitted to be
done  either  by  testing  or  by  grounding.  For  capacitors
between  1000  joules  and  less  than  100  kJ,  verification
shall  be  done  using  testing  or  soft  grounding,  then  hard
grounding.  Above  100  kJ,  an  engineered  and  redundant
system  shall  be  used  for  remote  testing  and  grounding.
An  adequately  rated  portable  test  instrument  shall  be
used  to  test  between  each  capacitor  terminal  and  from
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ARTICLE 360 — SAFETY-RELATED REQUIREMENTS FOR CAPACITORS
360.6
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–55
each terminal to ground to assure that the capacitor is de-
energized.
(7)Before and after each verification, determine that the test
instrument  is  operating  satisfactorily  through  verification
on  a  known  dc  voltage  source.  If  voltage  remains,  deter‐
mine  and  correct  the  cause,  and  repeat  step  (5)  to
discharge  the  capacitors.  Where  recharging  can  occur
due  to  dielectric  absorption  or  induced  voltages,  all  the
capacitor   terminals   shall   be   connected   together   and
grounded with a bare or transparent-insulated wire.
(8)For  series  capacitors  the  shorting  wires  shall  be  attached
across each individual capacitor, and to case.
For  single  capacitors  or  for  a  parallel  capacitor  bank,  the
grounding  device  shall  be  permitted  to  be  left  attached  to  the
capacitor terminals for the duration of the work (e.g., a ground
stick).
Exception:  Lockout/tagout  shall  not  be  required  for  work  on  cord-  and
plug-connected equipment for which exposure to the hazards of unexpec‐
ted energization of the equipment is controlled by the unplugging of the
equipment  from  the  energy  source,  provided  that  the  plug  is  under  the
exclusive  control  of  the  employee  performing  the  servicing  and  mainte‐
nance for the duration of the work.
N360.6 Grounding  Sticks.  Grounding  sticks  shall  be  provided
for  qualified  persons  to  safely  discharge  any  residual  stored
energy contained in capacitors or to hold the capacitor poten‐
tial at 0 volts. The grounding sticks shall be designed, construc‐
ted, installed, and periodically inspected so that the full energy
and voltage of the capacitors can be safely discharged.
N(A) Visual   Inspection.  The   ground   stick   shall   be   visually
inspected  for  defects  before  each  use.  All  mechanical  connec‐
tions  shall  be  examined  for  loose  connections.  Resistors  shall
be visually inspected for cracks or other defects and electrically
tested for proper resistance. The following shall occur if defects
or contamination are found:
(1)If any defect or contamination that could adversely affect
the  insulating  qualities  or  mechanical  integrity  of  the
ground  stick  is  present,  the  tool  shall  be  removed  from
service.
(2)If  the  defect  or  contamination  exists  on  the  grounding
stick,  then  it  shall  be  replaced  or  repaired  and  tested
before returning to service.
(3)If the defect or contamination exists on the cable, then it
shall be replaced or repaired and tested before returning
to service.
N(B) Electrical  Testing.  All  ground  sticks  shall  be  electrically
tested as follows:
(1)The  ground  stick  cable  shall  be  tested  to  verify  that  the
impedance is less than 0.1 ohms to ground every 2 years.
(2)The testing shall be documented.
Exception: The test shall be performed annually if the ground stick is
utilized outdoors or in other adverse conditions.
(3)Soft grounding (High-Z) ground sticks with resistors shall
be measured and compared to the specified value before
each use.
N(C) Storage and Disposal.  Any residual charge from capacitors
shall be removed by discharging before servicing or removal.
(1)All  uninstalled  capacitors  capable  of  storing  10  joules  or
greater at their rated voltage shall be short-circuited with
a conductor of appropriate size.
(2)When  an  uninstalled  capacitor  is  discovered  without  the
shorting  conductor  attached  to  the  terminals,  it  shall  be
treated  as  energized  and  charged  to  its  full  rated  voltage
until determined safe by a qualified person.
Informational Note: A capacitor that develops an internal open
circuit  could  retain  substantial  charge  internally  even  though
the   terminals   are   short-circuited.   Such   a   capacitor   can   be
hazardous  to  transport,  because  the  damaged  internal  wiring
could reconnect and discharge the capacitor through the short-
circuiting  conductor.  Any  capacitor  that  shows  a  significant
change  in  capacitance  after  a  fault  could  have  this  problem.
Action  should  be  taken  to  reduce  the  risk  associated  with  this
hazard when it is discovered.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX A
70E–56
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex A   Informative Publications
A.1  General.  The following documents or portions thereof are
referenced  within  this  standard  for  informational  purposes
only  and  are  thus  not  part  of  the  requirements  of  this  docu‐
ment.
ΔA.2 NFPA  Publications.  National  Fire  Protection  Association,
1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169-7471.
NFPA 70
®
, National Electrical Code
®
, 2020 edition.
NFPA 1, Fire Code, 2018 edition.
NFPA  70B,  Recommended  Practice  for  Electrical  Equipment  Main‐
tenance, 2019 edition.
NFPA  790,  Standard  for  Competency  of  Third-Party  Field  Evalua‐
tion Bodies, 2021 edition.
NFPA  791,  Recommended  Practice  and  Procedures  for  Unlabeled
Electrical Equipment Evaluation, 2021 edition.
A.3  Other Publications.
ΔA.3.1 ANSI  Publications.  American  National  Standards  Insti‐
tute, Inc., 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036.
ANSI/ASC  A14.1,  American  National  Standard  for  Ladders  —
Wood — Safety Requirements, 2007.
ANSI/ASC  A14.3,  American  National  Standard  for  Ladders  —
Fixed — Safety Requirements, 2008.
ANSI/ASC  A14.4,  American  National  Standard  Safety  Require‐
ments for Job Made Wooden Ladders, 2009.
ANSI/ASC  A14.5,  American  National  Standard  for  Ladders  —
Portable Reinforced Plastic — Safety Requirements, 2007.
ANSI  C84.1,  Electric  Power  Systems  and  Equipment  —  Voltage
Ratings (60 Hz), 2011.
ANSI/AIHA  Z10,  American  National  Standard  for  Occupational
Health and Safety Management Systems, 2012.
ANSI Z136.1, Standard for Safe Use of Lasers, 2014.
ANSI/ASSE  Z244.1,  Control  of  Hazardous  Energy  —  Lockout/
Tagout and Alternative Methods, 2003 (R 2008).
ANSI Z535, Series of Standards for Safety Signs and Tags, 2011.
ANSI Z535.4, Product Safety Signs and Tags Labels, 2011.
ANSI/NETA  MTS,  Standard  for  Maintenance  Testing  Specifica‐
tions for Electrical Power Distribution Equipment and Systems, 2011.
ΔA.3.2 ASTM    Publications.  ASTM    International,    100    Barr
Harbor   Drive,   P.O   Box   C700,   West   Conshohocken,   PA
19428-2959.
ASTM D120, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Gloves,
2014a.
ASTM D1048, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Blan‐
kets,2014.
ASTM   D1049,   Standard   Specification   for   Rubber   Insulating
Covers, 1998 (R 2017).
ASTM  D1050,  Standard  Specification  for  Rubber  Insulating  Line
Hoses, 2005 (R 2017).
ASTM   D1051,   Standard   Specification   for   Rubber   Insulating
Sleeves, 2014a.
ASTM F478, Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulat‐
ing Line Hose and Covers, 2014a.
ASTM F479, Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulat‐
ing Blankets, 2006 (R 2017).
ASTM F496, Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulat‐
ing Gloves and Sleeves, 2014a.
ASTM  F696,  Standard  Specification  for  Leather  Protectors  for
Rubber Insulating Gloves and Mittens, 2006 (R 2011).
ASTM F711, Standard Specification for Fiberglass-Reinforced Plas‐
tic (FRP) Rod and Tube Used in Live Line Tools, 2017.
ASTM F712, Standard Test Methods and Specifications for Electri‐
cally  Insulating  Plastic  Guard  Equipment  for  Protection  of  Workers,
2006 (R 2011).
ASTM   F855,   Standard   Specification   for   Temporary   Protective
Grounds  to  Be  Used  on  De-energized  Electric  Power  Lines  and  Equip‐
ment, 2017.
ASTM  F887,  Standard  Specification  for  Personal  Climbing  Equip‐
ment, 2016.
ASTM  F1116,  Standard  Test  Method  for  Determining  Dielectric
Strength of Dielectric Footwear, 2014a.
ASTM F1117, Standard Specification for Dielectric Footwear, 2003
(R 2013).
ASTM  F1236,  Standard  Guide  for  Visual  Inspection  of  Electrical
Protective Rubber Products,2016.
ASTM F1296, Standard Guide for Evaluating Chemical Protective
Clothing, 2015.
ASTM   F1449,   Standard   Guide   for   Industrial   Laundering   of
Flame, Thermal, and Arc Resistant Clothing, 2015.
ASTM F1505, Standard Specification for Insulated and Insulating
Hand Tools,2016.
ASTM F1506, Standard Performance Specification for Flame Resist‐
ant  and  Electric  Arc  Rated  Protective  Clothing  Worn  by  Workers
Exposed to Flames and Electric Arcs, 2018.
ASTM F1742, Standard Specification for PVC Insulating Sheeting,
2003 (R 2011).
ASTM F1891, Standard Specification for Arc and Flame Resistant
Rainwear, 2012.
ASTM F1959/F1959M, Standard Test Method for Determining the
Arc Rating of Materials for Clothing, 2014.
ASTM  F2178,  Standard  Test  Method  for  Determining  the  Arc
Rating and Standard Specification for Eye or Face Protective Products,
2017b.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX A
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–57
ASTM  F2249,  Standard  Specification  for  In-Service  Test  Methods
for Temporary Grounding Jumper Assemblies Used on De-energized Elec‐
tric Power Lines and Equipment, 2003 (R 2015).
ASTM  F2320,  Standard  Specification  for  Rubber  Insulating  Sheet‐
ing, 2011.
ASTM F2412, Standard Test Methods for Foot Protections, 2018.
ASTM  F2413,  Standard  Specification  for  Performance  Require‐
ments for Protective (Safety) Toe Cap Footwear, 2017.
ASTM F2522, Standard Test Method for Determining the Protective
Performance  of  a  Shield  Attached  on  Live  Line  Tools  or  on  Racking
Rods for Electric Arc Hazards, 2017.
ASTM  F2675/F2675M,  Standard  Test  Method  for  Determining
Arc Ratings of Hand Protective Products Developed and Used for Elec‐
trical Arc Flash Protection, 2013.
ASTM F2676, Standard Test Method for Determining the Protective
Performance  of  an  Arc  Protective  Blanket  for  Electric  Arc  Hazards,
2016.
ASTM  F2677,  Standard  Specification  for  Electrically  Insulating
Aprons, (R 2013).
ASTM  F2757,  Standard  Guide  for  Home  Laundering  Care  and
Maintenance of Flame, Thermal, and Arc Resistant Clothing, 2016.
ASTM F3272, Standard Guide for Selection, Care, and Use of Arc
Protective Blankets, 2018.
A.3.3 British   Standards   Institute,   Occupational   Health   and
Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) Project Group Publications.
British   Standards   Institute,   American   Headquarters,   12110
Sunset Hills Road, Suite 200, Reston VA 20190-5902.
BS OSHAS 18001, Occupational Health and Safety Management
Systems, 2007.
ΔA.3.4  CSA Publications.  Canadian Standards Association, 5060
Spectrum Way, Mississauga, ON L4W 5N6, Canada.
CAN/CSA Z1000, Occupational Health and Safety Management,
2006 (R 2011).
•
A.3.5 ICRP Publications.  International Commission on Radio‐
logical Protection, SE-171 16 Stockholm, Sweden.
ICRP Publication 33, Protection Against Ionizing Radiation from
External Sources Used in Medicine, March 1982.
ΔA.3.6 IEC        Publications.  International        Electrotechnical
Commission,   3,   rue   de   Varembé,   P.O.   Box   131,   CH-1211
Geneva 20, Switzerland.
IEC  TS  60479-1,  Effects  of  Current  on  Human  Beings  and  Live‐
stock Part 1: General Aspects, 2016.
IECTS  60479-2,  Effects  of  Current  on  Humans  and  Livestock,
Part 2, Special Aspects, 2017.
IEC 61243-1, Live Working — Voltage Detectors — Part 1: Capaci‐
tive type to be used for voltages exceeding 1kV a.c., 2009.
IEC  61243-2,  Live  Working  —  Voltage  Detectors  —  Part  2:  Resis‐
tive type to be used for voltages of 1kV to 36 kV a.c., 2002.
IEC  61243.3,  Live  Working  —  Voltage  Detectors  —  Part  3:  Two-
pole low voltage type, 2014.
ΔA.3.7  IEEE Publications.  Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, IEEE Operations Center, 445 Hoes Lane, P. O. Box
1331, Piscataway, NJ 08855-1331.
IEEE  C37.20.7,  Guide  for  Testing  Switchgear  Rated  up  to  52  kV
for Internal Arcing Faults, 2007/Corrigendum 1, 2010.
ANSI/IEEE C2, National Electrical Safety Code, 2012, 2017.
IEEE 4, Standard Techniques for High Voltage Testing, 2013.
IEEE  450,  IEEE  Recommended  Practice  for  Maintenance,  Testing,
and Replacement of Vented Lead-Acid Batteries for Stationary Applica‐
tions, 2010.
IEEE 463, Electrical Safety Practices in Electrolytic Cell Line Work‐
ing Zones, 2013.
IEEE  516,  Guide  for  Maintenance  Methods  on  Energized  Power
Lines, 2009.
IEEE  937,  Recommended  Practice  for  Installation  and  Mainte‐
nance of Lead-Acid Batteries for Photovoltaic Systems, 2007.
IEEE  946,  Recommended  Practice  for  the  Design  of  DC  Auxiliary
Power Systems for Generating Systems, 2004.
IEEE  1106,  Recommended  Practice  for  Installation,  Maintenance,
Testing,  and  Replacement  of  Vented  Nickel-Cadmium  Batteries  for
Stationary Applications, 2010.
IEEE  1184,  Guide  for  Batteries  for  Uninterruptible  Power  Supply
Systems, 2006.
IEEE  1188,  Recommended  Practice  for  Maintenance,  Testing,  and
Replacement   of   Valve-Regulated   Lead-Acid   (VRLA)   Batteries   for
Stationary Applications, 2005 (R 2010).
IEEE  1491,  Guide  for  Selection  and  Use  of  Battery  Monitoring
Equipment in Stationary Applications, 2012.
IEEE  1584
TM
,  Guide  for  Performing  Arc  Flash  Hazard  Calcula‐
tions, 2018.
IEEE/ASHRAE  1635,  Guide  for  the  Ventilation  and  Thermal
Management of Batteries for Stationary Applications, 2018.
IEEE 1657, Recommended Practice for Personnel Qualifications for
Installation and Maintenance of Stationary Batteries, 2009.
IEEE   3007.1,   Recommended   Practice   for   the   Operation   and
Management of Industrial and Commercial Power Systems, 2010.
IEEE 3007.2, Recommended Practice for the Maintenance of Indus‐
trial and Commercial Power Systems, 2010.
IEEE 3007.3, Recommended Practice for Electrical Safety in Indus‐
trial and Commercial Power Systems, 2012.
Ammerman, R. F., Gammon, T., Sen, P. K., and Nelson, J. P.,
“DC-Arc Models and Incident-Energy Calculations,” IEEE Trans‐
actions on Industry Applications, Vol. 46, No. 5, 2010.
Doan,  D.  R,  “Arc  Flash  Calculations  for  Exposures  to  DC
Systems,”  IEEE  Transactions  on  Industry  Applications,  Vol  46,
No. 6, 2010.
Doughty,  R.  L.,  T.  E.  Neal,  and  H.  L.  Floyd  II,  “Predicting
Incident  Energy  to  Better  Manage  the  Electric  Arc  Hazard  on
600  V  Power  Distribution  Systems,”  Record  of  Conference
Papers  IEEE  IAS  45th  Annual  Petroleum  and  Chemical  Indus‐
try Conference, September 28–30, 1998.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX A
70E–58
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Lee,  R.,  “The  Other  Electrical  Hazard:  Electrical  Arc  Flash
Burns,”  IEEE  Trans.  Applications,  Vol.  1A-18,  No.  3,  May/June
1982.
A.3.8 ISEA Publications.  International Safety Equipment Asso‐
ciation, 1901 North Moore Street, Arlington, VA 22209-1762.
ANSI/ISEA  125,  American  National  Standard  for  Conformity
Assessment of Safety and Personal Protective Equipment, 2014.
ANSI/ISEA Z87.1, American National Standard for Occupational
and Educational Eye and Face Protection, 2015.
ANSI/ISEA Z89.1, American National Standard for Head Protec‐
tion, 2014.
ANSI/ISEA  Z358.1,  American  National  Standard  for  Emergency
Eye Wash and Shower Equipment, 2009.
A.3.9 ISO  Publications.  International  Organization  for  Stand‐
ardization,  1,  Ch.  de  la  Voie-Creuse,  Case  postale  56,  CH-1211
Geneva 20, Switzerland.
ISO 9001, Quality management systems, 2015.
ISO 14001, Environmental Management Systems — Requirements
with Guidance for Use, 2004.
ISO 17025, General requirements for the competence of testing and
calibration laboratories, 2017.
ISO 17065, Conformity assessment — Requirements for bodies certi‐
fying products, processes and services, 2012.
ISO 31000, Risk management, 2018.
ISO 31010, Risk management — Risk assessment techniques,
A.3.10 NIOSH   Publications.  National   Institute   for   Occupa‐
tional  Safety  and  Health,  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and
Prevention, 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA 30333.
DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 94-110, Applications Manual
for the Revised NIOSH Lifting Equation, 1994.
A.3.11 UL  Publications.  Underwriters  Laboratories  Inc.,  333
Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.
ANSI/UL  943,  Standard  for  Ground-Fault  Circuit  Interrupters,
2006 (R 2012).
UL  943C,  Outline  of  Investigation  for  Special  Purpose  Ground-
Fault Circuit-Interrupters, 2012.
UL 1436, Outlet Circuit Testers and Other Similar Indicating Devi‐
ces, 2016.
UL  61010-1,  Safety  Requirements  for  Electrical  Equipment  for
Measurement,  Control,  and  Laboratory  Use,  Part  1:  General  Require‐
ments, 2012.
UL  61010-2-033,  Safety  Requirements  for  Electrical  Equipment  for
Measurement, Control, and Laboratory Use — Part 2-033: Particular
Requirements for Hand-Held Multimeters and Other Meters, for Domes‐
tic and Professional use, Capable of Measuring Mains Voltage, 2014.
ΔA.3.12  Government Publications.  U.S. Government Publishing
Office,   732   North   Capitol   Street,   NW,   Washington,   DC
20401-0001.
Department  of  Energy,  DOE  Electrical  Safety  Handbook,  DOE-
HDBK-1092-2013.
Title  21,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  Part  1040,  "Perform‐
ance Standards for Light-Emitting Products," Sections 1040.10,
"Laser  products"  and  1040.11,  "Specific  purpose  laser  prod‐
ucts."
Title  29,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  Part  1910,  “Occupa‐
tional Safety and Health Standards,” Subpart S, “Electrical.”
Title   29,   Code   of   Federal   Regulations,   Part   1910.137,
“Personal Protective Equipment.”
Title  29,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  Part  1910.305(j)(7),
“Storage Batteries.”
Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1926, “Safety and
Health Regulations for Construction”, Subpart K, “Electrical.”
Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1926.441, “Batter‐
ies and Battery Charging.”
A.3.13 Other  Publications.  Charles  R.  Hummer,  Richard  J.
Pearson,  and  Donald  H.  Porschet,  “Safe  Distances  From  a  High-
Energy   Capacitor   Bank   for   Ear   and   Lung   Protection,”   Army
Research Laboratory Report, ANL-TN-608, July 2014.
“DC  Arc  Hazard  Assessment  Phase  II,”  Copyright  Material,
Kinectrics Inc., Report No. K-012623-RA-0002-R00.
Occupational  Injuries  From  Electrical  Shock  and  Arc  Flash  Events
Final Report, Richard Campbell and David Dini, Fire Protection
Research Foundation, Quincy, MA.
Occupational  Electrical  Injuries  in  the  US,  2003–2009,  James
Cawley and Brett C. Banner, ESFI.
Rasmussen,  J.,  "Skills,  rules,  and  knowledge;  signals,  signs,
and  symbols,  and  other  distinctions  in  human  performance
models,"  IEEE  Transactions  on  Systems,  Man,  and  Cybernetics,  (3),
257–266, 1983.
Reason, J., Human Error. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge Univer‐
sity Press, 1990.
Technical   paper   ESW   2012-24   presented   at   IEEE   ESW
conference,  Arc  Flash  Hazards,  Incident  Energy,  PPE  Ratings  and
Thermal Burn Injury — A Deeper Look, Tammy Gammon, Wei-Jen
Lee, and Ben Johnson.
Technical   Paper   ESW   2015-17   presented   at   IEEE   ESW
conference,  OSHA  Subpart  V,  Electric  Power  and  Distribution,
April 11, 2014.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX B
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–59
Informative Annex B   Reserved
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX C
70E–60
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex C   Limits of Approach
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
C.1 Preparation   for   Approach.  Observing   a   safe   approach
distance   from   exposed   energized   electrical   conductors   or
circuit  parts  is  an  effective  means  of  maintaining  electrical
safety. As the distance between a person and the exposed ener‐
gized  conductors  or  circuit  parts  decreases,  the  potential  for
electrical incident increases.
C.1.1 Unqualified  Persons,  Safe  Approach  Distance.  Unquali‐
fied  persons  are  safe  when  they  maintain  a  distance  from  the
exposed  energized  conductors  or  circuit  parts,  including  the
longest  conductive  object  being  handled,  so  that  they  cannot
contact  or  enter  a  specified  air  insulation  distance  to  the
exposed  energized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit  parts.  This
safe   approach   distance   is   the   limited   approach   boundary.
Further,  persons  must  not  cross  the  arc  flash  boundary  unless
they  are  wearing  appropriate  personal  protective  clothing  and
are  under  the  close  supervision  of  a  qualified  person.  Only
when  continuously  escorted  by  a  qualified  person  should  an
unqualified   person   cross   the   limited   approach   boundary.
Under no circumstance should an unqualified person cross the
restricted  approach  boundary,  where  special  shock  protection
techniques and equipment are required.
C.1.2 Qualified Persons, Safe Approach Distance.
C.1.2.1  Determine the arc flash boundary and, if the boundary
is  to  be  crossed,  appropriate  arc-rated  protective  equipment
must be utilized.
C.1.2.2  For  a  person  to  cross  the  limited  approach  boundary
and  enter  the  limited  space,  a  person  should  meet  the  follow‐
ing criteria:
(1)Be qualified to perform the job/task
(2)Be  able  to  identify  the  hazards  and  associated  risks  with
the tasks to be performed
C.1.2.3  To  cross  the  restricted  approach  boundary  and  enter
the  restricted  space,  qualified  persons  should  meet  the  follow‐
ing criteria:
(1)As  applicable,  have  an  energized  electrical  work  permit
authorized by management.
(2)Use personal protective equipment (PPE) that is rated for
the voltage and energy level involved.
(3)Minimize  the  likelihood  of  bodily  contact  with  exposed
energized  conductors  and  circuit  parts  from  inadvertent
movement  by  keeping  as  much  of  the  body  out  of  the
restricted space as possible and using only protected body
parts in the space as necessary to accomplish the work.
(4)Use insulated tools and equipment.
(See Figure C.1.2.3.)
C.2 Basis   for   Distance   Values   in   Tables   130.4(E)(a)   and
130.4(E)(b).
C.2.1 General   Statement.  Columns   2   through   5   of   Table
130.4(E)(a)   and   Table   130.4(E)(b)   show   various   distances
from  the  exposed  energized  electrical  conductors  or  circuit
parts. They include dimensions that are added to a basic mini‐
mum  air  insulation  distance.  Those  basic  minimum  air  insula‐
tion  distances  for  voltages  72.5  kV  and  under  are  based  on
IEEE  4,  Standard  Techniques  for  High  Voltage  Testing,  Appendix
2B; and voltages over 72.5 kV are based on IEEE 516, Guide for
Maintenance Methods on Energized Power Lines. The minimum air
insulation  distances  that  are  required  to  avoid  flashover  are  as
follows:
(1)≤300 V: 1 mm (0 ft 0.03 in.)
(2)>300 V to ≤750 V: 2 mm (0 ft 0.07 in.)
(3)>750 V to ≤2 kV: 5 mm (0 ft 0.19 in.)
(4)>2 kV to ≤15 kV: 39 mm (0 ft 1.5 in.)
(5)>15 kV to ≤36 kV: 161 mm (0 ft 6.3 in.)
(6)>36 kV to ≤48.3 kV: 254 mm (0 ft 10.0 in.)
(7)>48.3 kV to ≤72.5 kV: 381 mm (1 ft 3.0 in.)
(8)>72.5 kV to ≤121 kV: 640 mm (2 ft 1.2 in.)
(9)>138 kV to ≤145 kV: 778 mm (2 ft 6.6 in.)
(10)>161 kV to ≤169 kV: 915 mm (3 ft 0.0 in.)
(11)>230 kV to ≤242 kV: 1.281 m (4 ft 2.4 in.)
(12)>345 kV to ≤362 kV: 2.282 m (7 ft 5.8 in.)
(13)>500 kV to ≤550 kV: 3.112 m (10 ft 2.5 in.)
(14)>765 kV to ≤800 kV: 4.225 m (13 ft 10.3 in.)
C.2.1.1 Column  1.  The  voltage  ranges  have  been  selected  to
group  voltages  that  require  similar  approach  distances  based
on the sum of the electrical withstand distance and an inadver‐
tent movement factor. The value of the upper limit for a range
is the maximum voltage for the highest nominal voltage in the
range, based on ANSI C84.1, Electric Power Systems and Equipment
—  Voltage  Ratings  (60  Hz).  For  single-phase  systems,  select  the
range  that  is  equal  to  the  system’s  maximum  phase-to-ground
voltage multiplied by 1.732.
C.2.1.2 Column  2.  The  distances  in  column  2  are  based  on
OSHA’s  rule  for  unqualified  persons  to  maintain  a  3.05  m
(10  ft)  clearance  for  all  voltages  up  to  50  kV  (voltage-to-
ground), plus 100 mm (4.0 in.) for each 10 kV over 50 kV.
Restricted space
Limited approach
boundary
Any point on an
exposed, energized
electrical conductor
or circuit part
Limited space
Arc flash boundary
Restricted approach
boundary
FIGURE  C.1.2.3     Limits of Approach.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX C
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–61
C.2.1.3  Column 3.  The distances in column 3 are based on the
following:
(1)≤750  V:  Use  NEC  Table  110.26(A)(1),  Working  Spaces,
Condition 2, for the 151 V to 600 V range.
(2)>750  V  to  ≤145  kV:  Use  NEC  Table  110.34(A),  Working
Space, Condition 2.
(3)>145  kV:  Use  OSHA’s  3.05  m  (10  ft)  rules  as  used  in
Column 2.
C.2.1.4 Column  4.  The  distances  in  column  4  are  based  on
adding  to  the  flashover  dimensions  shown  in  C.2.1  the  follow‐
ing inadvertent movement distance:
≤300 V: Avoid contact.
Based   on   experience   and   precautions   for   household
120/240-V systems:
>300 V to ≤750 V: Add 304.8 mm (1 ft 0 in.) for inadvertent
movement.
These  values  have  been  found  to  be  adequate  over  years  of
use  in  ANSI/IEEE  C2,  National  Electrical  Safety  Code,  in  the
approach distances for communication workers.
>72.5  kV:  Add  304.8  mm  (1  ft  0  in.)  for  inadvertent  move‐
ment.
These  values  have  been  found  to  be  adequate  over  years  of
use  in  ANSI/IEEE  C2,  National  Electrical  Safety  Code,  in  the
approach distances for supply workers.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX D
70E–62
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex D   Incident Energy and Arc Flash Boundary Calculation Methods
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
D.1  Introduction.  Informative  Annex  D  summarizes  calcula‐
tion  methods  available  for  calculating  arc  flash  boundary  and
incident energy. It is important to investigate the limitations of
any  methods  to  be  used.  The  limitations  of  methods  summar‐
ized in Informative Annex D are described in Table D.1.
D.2  Ralph Lee Calculation Method.
ΔD.2.1 Basic  Equations  for  Calculating  Arc  Flash  Boundary
Distances.  The  short-circuit  symmetrical  ampacity,  I
sc
,  from  a
bolted three-phase fault at the transformer terminals is calcula‐
ted with the following formula:
IMVAVZ
sc
=×÷××÷ % Base    101 732100
6




[]
{}
{}
.
where I
sc
 is in amperes, V is in volts, and %Z is based on the
transformer MVA.
A  typical  value  for  the  maximum  power,  P  (in  MW)  in  a
three-phase arc can be calculated using the following formula:
PMVA
bf
=×maximum bolted fault, in 




0 707
2
.
PV   I
sc
=××××
−
1 73210   0 707
62
..
The arc flash boundary distance is calculated in accordance
with the following formulae:
DMVAt
cbf
=××2 65
1
2
.




 
[D.2.1a]
 
[D.2.1b]
 
[D.2.1c]
 
[D.2.1d]N
DMVA    t
c
=××53
1
2
[]
where:
D
c
=distance in feet of person from arc source for a just
curable burn (that is, skin temperature remains less
than 80°C).
MVA
bf
=
bolted fault MVA at point involved.
MVA
=MVA rating of transformer. For transformers with MVA
ratings below 0.75 MVA, multiply the transformer MVA
rating by 1.25.
t
=time of arc exposure in seconds.
The  clearing  time  for  a  current-limiting  fuse  is  approxi‐
mately  
1
∕
4
  cycle  or  0.004  second  if  the  arcing  fault  current  is  in
the  fuse’s  current-limiting  range.  The  clearing  time  of  a  5-kV
and  15-kV  circuit  breaker  is  approximately  0.1  second  or  6
cycles  if  the  instantaneous  function  is  installed  and  operating.
This  can  be  broken  down  as  follows:  actual  breaker  time
(approximately 2 cycles), plus relay operating time of approxi‐
mately 1.74 cycles, plus an additional safety margin of 2 cycles,
giving  a  total  time  of  approximately  6  cycles.  Additional  time
must be added if a time delay function is installed and operat‐
ing.
The  formulas  used  in  this  explanation  are  from  Ralph  Lee,
“The  Other  Electrical  Hazard:  Electrical  Arc  Flash  Burns,”  in
IEEE  Trans.  Industrial  Applications.  The  calculations  are  based
on the worst-case arc impedance. (See Table D.2.1.)
D.2.2 Single-Line    Diagram    of    a    Typical    Petrochemical
Complex.  The  single-line  diagram  (see  Figure  D.2.2)  illustrates
the complexity of a distribution system in a typical petrochemi‐
cal plant.
 
[D.2.1e]
Δ
Table D.1  Limitation of Calculation Methods
SectionSourceLimitations/Parameters
D.2Lee, “The Other Electrical Hazard: Electrical Arc 
Flash Burns”
Calculates incident energy and arc flash boundary for arc in open air; 
conservative over 600 volts and becomes more conservative as 
voltage increases
D.3Doughty, et al., “Predicting Incident Energy to Better 
Manage the Electrical Arc Hazard on 600 V Power 
Distribution Systems”
Calculates incident energy for three-phase arc on systems rated 
600 volts and below; applies to short-circuit currents between 16 kA 
and 50 kA
D.4IEEE 1584, Guide for Performing Arc Flash Hazard 
Calculations
Calculates incident energy and arc flash boundary for 
208 volts to 15 kV; three-phase; 50 Hz to 60 Hz; 500 amperes to 
106,000 amperes short-circuit current (208 volts to 600 volts); 200 
amperes to 65,000 amperes short-circuit current (600 volts to 
15,000 volts); and conductor gaps of 6.35 mm to 76.2 mm (0.25 in. 
to 3 in.) for 208 volts to 600 volts and 13 mm to 152 mm (0.75 in. to 
10 in.) for 601 volts to 15,000 volts
D.5Doan, “Arc Flash Calculations for Exposure to DC 
Systems”
Calculates incident energy for dc systems rated up to 1000 volts dc
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX D
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–63
ΔD.2.3 Sample  Calculation.  Many  of  the  electrical  characteris‐
tics of the systems and equipment are provided in Table D.2.1.
The sample calculation is made on the 4160-volt bus 4A or 4B.
Table  D.2.1  tabulates  the  results  of  calculating  the  arc  flash
boundary  for  each  part  of  the  system.  For  this  calculation,
based on Table D.2.1, the following results are obtained:
(1)Calculation is made on a 4160-volt bus.
(2)Transformer MVA (and base MVA) = 10 MVA.
(3)Transformer impedance on 10 MVA base = 5.5 percent.
(4)Circuit breaker clearing time = 6 cycles.
Using Equation D.2.1(a), calculate the short-circuit current:
IMVAV
sc
=×÷××÷ %Ζ
=×÷
 Base     101 732100
10   101 73
6
6




[]
{}
{}




.
.22    4160100    5 5
25 000
××÷
=
[]
{}
{}
.
, amperes
Using Equation D.2.1(b), calculate the power in the arc:
P=××××
=
−
1 732    4160    25 000   100 707
91
62
.,.
 MW
Using  Equation  D.2.1(d),  calculate  the  second  degree  burn
distance:
D
c
=×××××
=
−
2 651 732    25 000    4160   100 1
6 97 00
6
1
2
..,.
..




{}
 or  ft
 
[D.2.3a]N
 
[D.2.3b]N
 
[D.2.3c]N
Or,  using  Equation  D.2.1(e),  calculate  the  second  degree
burn distance using an alternative method:
D
c
=××
=
53   10    0 1
7 28
1
2
.
.
[]
 ft
ΔD.2.4 Calculation  of  Incident  Energy  Exposure  Greater  Than
600  V  for  an  Arc  Flash  Hazard  Analysis.  The  equation  that
follows can be used to predict the incident energy produced by
a three-phase arc in open air on systems rated above 600 V. The
parameters required to make the calculations follow.
(1)The   maximum   bolted   fault,   three-phase   short-circuit
current available at the equipment.
(2)The total protective device clearing time (upstream of the
prospective  arc  location)  at  the  maximum  short-circuit
current.  If  the  total  protective  device  clearing  time  is
longer  than  2  seconds,  consider  how  long  a  person  is
likely to remain in the location of the arc flash. It is likely
that  a  person  exposed  to  an  arc  flash  will  move  away
quickly  if  it  is  physically  possible,  and  2  seconds  is  a
reasonable maximum time for calculations. A person in a
bucket truck or a person who has crawled into equipment
will  need  more  time  to  move  away.  Sound  engineering
judgment  must  be  used  in  applying  the  2-second  maxi‐
mum  clearing  time,  since  there  could  be  circumstances
where an employee’s egress is inhibited.
(3)The distance from the arc source.
(4)Rated phase-to-phase voltage of the system.
E
F    Vt
D
A
=
×××793
2
where:
E
=incident energy, cal/cm
2
F
=bolted fault short-circuit current, kA
V
=system phase-to-phase voltage, kV
t
A
=
arc duration, sec
D
=distance from the arc source, in.
 
[D.2.3d]N
 
[D.2.4]
Table D.2.1  Flash Burn Hazard at Various Levels in a Large Petrochemical Plant
(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)
Bus Nominal Voltage Levels
System
(MVA)
Transformer
(MVA)
System or
Transformer
(% Z)
Short-Circuit
Symmetrical
(A)
Clearing Time
of Fault
(cycles)
Arc Flash Boundary Typical
Distance
*
SIU.S.
230 kV90001.1123,0006.015 m49.2 ft
13.8 kV7509.431,3006.01.16 m3.8 ft
Load side of all
    13.8-V fuses
7509.431,3001.0184 mm0.61 ft
4.16 kV10.05.525,0006.02.96 m9.7 ft
4.16 kV5.05.512,6006.01.4 m4.6 ft
Line side of incoming
    600-V fuse
2.55.544,00060.0–120.07 m–11 m23 ft–36 ft
600-V bus2.55.544,0000.25268 mm0.9 ft
600-V bus1.55.526,0006.01.6 m5.4 ft
600-V bus1.05.5717,0006.01.2 m4 ft
*Distance from an open arc to limit skin damage to a curable second degree skin burn [less than 80°C (176°F) on skin] in free air.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX D
70E–64
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
D.3  Doughty Neal Paper.
D.3.1 Calculation of Incident Energy Exposure.  The following
equations can be used to predict the incident energy produced
by  a  three-phase  arc  on  systems  rated  600  V  and  below.  The
results of these equations might not represent the worst case in
all  situations.  It  is  essential  that  the  equations  be  used  only
within  the  limitations  indicated  in  the  definitions  of  the  varia‐
bles  shown  under  the  equations.  The  equations  must  be  used
only under qualified engineering supervision.
Informational   Note:   Experimental   testing   continues   to   be
performed  to  validate  existing  incident  energy  calculations  and
to determine new formulas.
The parameters required to make the calculations follow.
(1)The   maximum   bolted   fault,   three-phase   short-circuit
current  available  at  the  equipment  and  the  minimum
fault  level  at  which  the  arc  will  self-sustain.  (Calculations
should  be  made  using  the  maximum  value,  and  then  at
lowest  fault  level  at  which  the  arc  is  self-sustaining.  For
480-volt systems, the industry accepted minimum level for
a  sustaining  arcing  fault  is  38  percent  of  the  available
bolted  fault,  three-phase  short-circuit  current.  The  high‐
est  incident  energy  exposure  could  occur  at  these  lower
levels where the overcurrent device could take seconds or
minutes to open.)
(2)The total protective device clearing time (upstream of the
prospective  arc  location)  at  the  maximum  short-circuit
current,  and  at  the  minimum  fault  level  at  which  the  arc
will sustain itself.
(3)The  distance  of  the  worker  from  the  prospective  arc  for
the task to be performed.
Typical  working  distances  used  for  incident  energy  calcula‐
tions are as follows:
(1)Low voltage (600 V and below) MCC and panelboards —
455 mm (18 in.)
(2)Low  voltage  (600  V  and  below)  switchgear  —  610  mm
(24 in.)
(3)Medium  voltage  (above  600  V)  switchgear  —  910  mm
(36 in.)
5MVA
5.5%
5MVA
5.5%
Bus 2A
1TI
Bus 2B
Bus 3B
Bus 5B
Bus 3A
600V
4.16kV
2.5MVA
5.5%
2.5MVA
5.5%
2.5MVA
5.5%
2.5MVA
5.5%
600A
 Bus 1A/1
13.8kV
Bus 5A
600V
2.5MVA
5.5%
2.5MVA
5.5%
Bus 6B
Bus 6A
600V
2.5MVA
5.5%
2.5MVA
5.5%
Bus 7B
Bus 7A
10MVA
5.5%
10MVA
5.5%
Bus 4BBus 4A
600V
4.16kV
230kV/13.8kV
13.8kV Bus 1B
600A
13.8kV Bus 1A
230kV/13.8kV
1600116002
qq
Public utility
9000MVA fault
available
1.5MVA
5.5%
1MVA
5.57%
600V 
Bus 10B
600V 
Bus 11B
Bus 1B/1
13.8kV
FIGURE  D.2.2     Single-Line Diagram of a Typical Petrochemical Complex.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX D
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–65
D.3.2 Arc  in  Open  Air.  The  estimated  incident  energy  for  an
arc in open air is as follows:
EDt
F
F
MAAA
=−
+
−
5271
0 0016
0 0076
0 8938
1 9593
2
.
.
.
.










where:
E
MA
=
maximum open arc incident energy, cal/cm
2
D
A
=distance from arc electrodes, in. (for distances 18 in. and
greater)
t
A
=
arc duration, sec
F
=short-circuit current, kA (for the range of 16 kA to 50
kA)
Sample  Calculation:  Using  Equation  D.3.2(a),  calculate  the
maximum  open  arc  incident  energy,  cal/cm
2
,  where  D
A
  =
18 in., t
A
 = 0.2 second, and F = 20 kA.
EDt
FF
MAAA
=
−
+
=×.00
5271
0 00160 0076
0 8938
5271
1 9593
2
 
−






.
..
.
335× 0.2 0.0016× 400 − 0.0076× 20 + 0.8938
=×
=
[]
[]
3 691 381
21 33
..
. J/ccm cal/cm
22
5 098.
()
D.3.3 Arc  in  a  Cubic  Box.  The  estimated  incident  energy  for
an arc in a cubic box (20 in. on each side, open on one end) is
given  in  the  equation  that  follows.  This  equation  is  applicable
to arc flashes emanating from within switchgear, motor control
centers, or other electrical equipment enclosures.
EDt
F
F
MBBA
=−
+
−
1038 7
0 0093
0 3453
5 9675
1 4738
2
.
.
.
.
.










where:
E
MB
=
maximum 20 in. cubic box incident energy, cal/cm
2
D
B
=distance from arc electrodes, in. (for distances 18 in. and
greater)
t
A
=
arc duration, sec
F
=short-circuit current, kA (for the range of 16 kA to
50 kA)
 
[D.3.2a]
 
[D.3.2b]
 
[D.3.3a]
Sample  Calculation:  Using  Equation  D.3.3(a),  calculate  the
maximum 20 in. cubic box incident energy, cal/cm
2
, using the
following:
(1)D
B
 = 18 in.
(2)t
A
 = 0.2 sec
(3)F = 20 kA
EDt
FF
MBBA
=
−
+
=1038× 0.
1038 7
0 00930 3453
5 9675
1 4738
2
.
..
.
.−






00141× 0.2
0.0093× 400 − 0.3453× 20
+5.9675
=×
=






[]
2 9282 7815..
334 18 144
22
..   J/cm cal/cm
()
D.3.4  Reference.  The  equations  for  this  section  were  derived
in the IEEE paper by R. L. Doughty, T. E. Neal, and H. L. Floyd,
II,  “Predicting  Incident  Energy  to  Better  Manage  the  Electric
Arc Hazard on 600 V Power Distribution Systems.”
D.4  IEEE 1584
-2018 Calculation Method.
ND.4.1  Introduction.  This  section  provides  a  summary  of  the
scope  and  purpose  of  IEEE  1584-2018,  Guide  for  Performing  Arc
Flash Hazard Calculations, and it also provides an overview of the
model range of parameters. Readers are encouraged to consult
IEEE  1584-2018  for  further  information  and  detailed  guide‐
lines for proper application of the standard.
IEEE 1584-2018 is a revision of IEEE 1584-2002 as amended
by IEEE 1584a-2004 and IEEE 1584b-2011.
The  scope  and  purpose  of  IEEE  1584-2018  are  in  D.4.2  and
D.4.3.
ND.4.2  Scope.  This  guide  provides  models  and  an  analytical
process to enable calculation of the predicted incident thermal
energy and the arc-flash boundary (AFB). The process covers a
collection  of  applicable  field  data,  consideration  of  power
system  operating  scenarios,  and  calculation  parameters.  Appli‐
cations include electrical equipment and conductors for three-
phase alternating current (ac) voltages from 208 volts to 15 kV.
Calculations for single-phase ac systems and direct current (dc)
systems  are  not  a  part  of  this  guide,  but  some  guidance  and
references  are  provided  for  those  applications.  Recommenda‐
tions  for  personal  protective  equipment  (PPE)  to  mitigate  arc-
flash hazards are not included in this guide.
ND.4.3  Purpose.  The  purpose  of  the  guide  is  to  enable  quali‐
fied  person(s)  to  analyze  power  systems  for  the  purpose  of
calculating the incident energy (IE) to which employees could
be exposed during operations and maintenance work. Contrac‐
tors  and  facility  owners  can  use  this  information  to  provide
appropriate  protection  for  employees  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  of  applicable  electrical  workplace  safety  stand‐
ards.
 
[D.3.3b]
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX D
70E–66
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
The  new  arc-flash  model  is  a  result  of  the  IEEE/NFPA  Arc-
Flash  Phenomena  Collaborative  Research  Project  and  is  based
on  over  1800  tests.  The  tests  were  performed  at  five  different
testing facilities over a 6-year period to ensure consistency and
repeatability.
ND.4.4 Range    of    the    Model.  The    range    of    the    IEEE
1584-2018 model is provided in Table D.4.4.
ND.4.5 Comparison  with  IEEE  1584-2002.  The  following  are
differences   between   the   IEEE   1584-2018   and   the   IEEE
1584-2002 arc flash models:
(1)The   IEEE   1584-2002   arc-flash   model   was   based   on
approximately 300 tests.
(2)The IEEE 1584-2018 model was based on over 1800 tests.
(3)IEEE 1584-2002 used two configurations.
(4)IEEE 1584-2018 includes five configurations.
(5)Five different labs were used for performing the tests.
(6)IEEE 1584-2002 test results were also used in new model.
(7)Based  on  the  testing  performed  it  was  observed  that
sustainable arcs are possible but less likely in three-phase
systems  operating  at  240  volts  nominal  or  less  with  an
available short-circuit current less than 2000 amperes.
ND.4.6 Electrode  Configuration.  The  orientation  and  arrange‐
ment  of  the  electrodes  used  in  the  testing  performed  for  the
model development.
The  following  electrode  configurations  (test  arrangements)
in  Table  D.4.6  are  defined  and  utilized  in  the  incident  energy
model:
(1)VCB:  Vertical  conductors/electrodes  inside  a  metal  box/
enclosure
(2)VCBB:  Vertical  conductors/electrodes  terminated  in  an
insulating barrier inside a metal box/enclosure
(3)HCB:  Horizontal  conductors/electrodes  inside  a  metal
box/enclosure
(4)VOA: Vertical conductors/electrodes in open air
(5)HOA: Horizontal conductors/electrodes in open air
N
Table D.4.4  Range of Input Parameters for IEEE 1584-2018
Input parameterRange
Voltage (Voc)208 volts to 15,000 volts 3-phase 
(line-to-line)
Bolted fault current (I
bf
): 
208 volts to 600 volts — low 
voltage (LV)
500 amperes to 106 000 amperes 
(rms symmetrical)
Bolted fault current (I
bf
): 
601 volts to 15,000 volts — 
medium voltage (MV)
200 to 65 000 A 
(rms symmetrical)
Gap (G): 208 volts to 600 volts6.35 mm to 76.2 mm 
(0.25 in. to 3 in.)
Gap (G): 601 volts to 
15,000 volts
19.05 mm to 254 mm 
(0.75 in. to 10 in.)
Working distance (D)≥ 305 mm (12 in.)
Fault clearing time (T)No limit
Maximum height1244.6 mm (49 in.)
Maximum width1244.6 mm (49 in.)
Minimum widthFour times the gap mm (4 × G)
Opening area1.549 m
2
 (2401 in.
2
)
Frequency50 Hz or 60 Hz
ND.4.7 Enclosure Size Correction Factor.  The VCB, VCBB, and
HCB  equations  were  normalized  for  a  508  mm  ×  508  mm  ×
508  mm  (20  in.  ×  20  in.  ×  20  in.)  enclosure.  This  model
provides  instructions  on  how  to  adjust  incident  energy  for
smaller  and  larger  enclosures  using  a  calculated  correction
factor.
ND.4.8 Cautions  and  Disclaimers.  As  an  IEEE  guide,  this  docu‐
ment  suggests  approaches  for  conducting  an  arc-flash  hazard
analysis but does not contain any mandatory requirements that
preclude  alternate  methods.  Following  the  suggestions  in  this
guide  does  not  guarantee  safety,  and  users  should  take  all
reasonable,  independent  steps  necessary  to  reduce  risks  from
arc-flash events.
This  information  is  offered  as  a  tool  for  conducting  an  arc-
flash  hazard  analysis.  It  is  intended  for  use  only  by  qualified
persons  who  are  knowledgeable  about  power  system  studies,
power   distribution   equipment,   and   equipment   installation
practices. It is not intended as a substitute for the engineering
judgment and adequate review necessary for such studies.
This guide is based upon testing and analysis of the thermal
burn hazard presented by incident energy. Due to the explosive
nature  of  arc-flash  incidents,  injuries  can  occur  from  ensuing
molten metal splatters, projectiles, pressure waves, toxic arc by-
products,  the  bright  light  of  the  arc,  and  the  loud  noise
produced. These other effects are not considered in this guide.
This guide is subject to revision as additional knowledge and
experience  is  gained.  IEEE,  those  companies  that  contributed
test data, and those people who worked on the development of
this standard make no guarantee of results and assume no obli‐
gation  or  liability  whatsoever  in  connection  with  this  informa‐
tion.
The methodology in this guide assumes that all equipment is
installed,  operated,  and  maintained  as  required  by  applicable
codes, standards, and manufacturers’ instructions, and applied
in  accordance  with  its  ratings.  Equipment  that  is  improperly
installed  or  maintained  may  not  operate  correctly,  possibly
increasing  the  arc  flash  incident  energy  or  creating  other
hazards.
•
N
Table D.4.6  Electrode Orientation and Configurations
E.C.StandardOrientationConfigurationTermination
VOA2002/2018VerticalOpen airOpen air
VCB2002/2018VerticalMetal 
enclosure
Open air
VCBB2018VerticalMetal 
enclosure
Insulating 
barrier
HOA2018HorizontalOpen airOpen air
HCB2018HorizontalMetal 
enclosure
Open air
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX D
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–67
D.5  Direct-Current Incident Energy Calculations.
D.5.1 Maximum Power Method.  The following method of esti‐
mating  dc  arc  flash  incident  energy  that  follows  was  published
in the IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications (see reference 2 of
D.5.2). This method is based on the concept that the maximum
power possible in a dc arc will occur when the arcing voltage is
one-half the system voltage. Testing completed for Bruce Power
(see reference 3 of D.5.3) has shown that this calculation is conser‐
vatively  high  in  estimating  the  arc  flash  value.  This  method
applies to dc systems rated up to 1000 
volts.
II
IEVIT    D
arcbf
msysarcarc
=×
=×××
0 5
0 01
2
.
.
where:
I
arc
=
arcing current, amperes
I
bf
=
system bolted fault current, amperes
IE
m
=estimated dc arc flash incident energy at the maximum
power point, cal/cm
2
V
sys
=
system voltage, volts
T
arc
=
arcing time, sec
D
=working distance, cm
For  exposures  where  the  arc  is  in  a  box  or  enclosure,  it
would   be   prudent   to   consider   additional   PPE   protection
beyond the values shown in Table 130.7(C)(15)(b).
D.5.2 Detailed    Arcing    Current    and    Energy    Calculations
Method.  A  thorough  theoretical  review  of  dc  arcing  current
 
[D.5.1]
and  energy  was  published  in  the  IEEE  Transactions  on  Industry
Applications. Readers are advised to refer to that paper (see refer‐
ence 1) for those detailed calculations.
References:
1.   “DC-Arc   Models   and   Incident-Energy   Calculations,”
Ammerman,  R.F.;  et  al.;  IEEE  Transactions  on  Industry  Applica‐
tions, Vol. 46, No.5.
2.  “Arc  Flash  Calculations  for  Exposures  to  DC  Systems,”
Doan,  D.R.,  IEEE  Transactions  on  Industry  Applications,  Vol.  46,
No.6.
3. “DC Arc Hazard Assessment Phase II”, Copyright Material,
Kinectrics Inc., Report No. K-012623-RA-0002-R00.
D.5.3 Short   Circuit   Current.  The   determination   of   short
circuit current is necessary in order to use Table 130.7(C)(15)
(b).  The  arcing  current  is  calculated  at  50  percent  of  the  dc
short-circuit   value.   The   current   that   a   battery   will   deliver
depends  on  the  total  impedance  of  the  short-circuit  path.  A
conservative approach in determining the short-circuit current
that the battery will deliver at 25°C is to assume that the maxi‐
mum  available  short-circuit  current  is  10  times  the  1  minute
ampere  rating  (to  1.75  volts  per  cell  at  25°C  and  the  specific
gravity  of  1.215)  of  the  battery.  A  more  accurate  value  for  the
short-circuit   current   for   the   specific   application   can   be
obtained from the battery manufacturer.
References:
1. IEEE 946, Recommended Practice for the Design of DC Auxiliary
Powers Systems for Generating Stations.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX E
70E–68
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex E   Electrical Safety Program
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
(See 110.5, Electrical Safety Program.)
E.1 Typical   Electrical   Safety   Program   Principles.  Electrical
safety  program  principles  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  the
following:
(1)Inspecting and evaluating the electrical equipment
(2)Maintaining  the  electrical  equipment’s  insulation  and
enclosure integrity
(3)Planning every job and document first-time procedures
(4)De-energizing, if possible (see 120.5)
(5)Anticipating unexpected events
(6)Identifying  the  electrical  hazards  and  reduce  the  associ‐
ated risk
(7)Protecting employees from shock, burn, blast, and other
hazards due to the working environment
(8)Using the right tools for the job
(9)Assessing people’s abilities
(10)Auditing the principles
E.2 Typical   Electrical   Safety   Program   Controls.  Electrical
safety program controls can include, but are not limited to, the
following:
(1)The employer develops programs and procedures, includ‐
ing training, and the employees apply them.
(2)Employees  are  to  be  trained  to  be  qualified  for  working
in  an  environment  influenced  by  the  presence  of  electri‐
cal energy.
(3)Procedures   are   to   be   used   to   identify   the   electrical
hazards and to develop job safety plans to eliminate those
hazards or to control the associated risk for those hazards
that cannot be eliminated.
(4)Every  electrical  conductor  or  circuit  part  is  considered
energized until proved otherwise.
(5)De-energizing  an  electrical  conductor  or  circuit  part  and
making it safe to work on is, in itself, a potentially hazard‐
ous task.
(6)Tasks to be performed within the limited approach boun‐
dary  or  arc  flash  boundary  of  exposed  energized  electri‐
cal  conductors  and  circuit  parts  are  to  be  identified  and
categorized.
(7)Precautions  appropriate  to  the  working  environment  are
to be determined and taken.
(8)A  logical  approach  is  to  be  used  to  determine  the  associ‐
ated risk of each task.
E.3 Typical  Electrical  Safety  Program  Procedures.  Electrical
safety  program  procedures  can  include,  but  are  not  limited  to
determination and assessment of the following:
(1)Purpose of task
(2)Qualifications and number of employees to be involved
(3)Identification  of  hazards  and  assessment  of  risks  of  the
task
(4)Limits of approach
(5)Safe work practices to be used
(6)Personal protective equipment (PPE) involved
(7)Insulating materials and tools involved
(8)Special precautionary techniques
(9)Electrical single-line diagrams
(10)Equipment details
(11)Sketches or photographs of unique features
(12)Reference data
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX F
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–69
Informative Annex F   Risk Assessment and Risk Control
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
F.1  Introduction to Risk Management.  Risk management is the
logical,  systematic  process  used  to  manage  the  risk  associated
with any activity, process, function, or product including safety,
the  environment,  quality,  and  finance.  The  risk  management
process and principles can be used by organizations of any type
or size.
The  following  risk  management  principles  can  readily  be
applied to electrical safety. Risk management:
(1)Is  an  integral  part  of  all  organizational  processes  and
decision making
(2)Is systematic, structured, and timely
(3)Is based on the best available information
(4)Takes human and cultural factors into account
(5)Is dynamic, iterative, and responsive to change
(6)Facilitates continual improvement of the organization
Informational Note: For more information on risk management
principles see ISO 31000:2009, Risk Management — Principles and
Guidelines.
The risk management process includes the following:
(1)Communication and consultation
(2)Establishing the risk assessment context and objectives
(3)Risk assessment
(4)Risk treatment
(5)Recording  and  reporting  the  risk  assessment  results  and
risk treatment decisions
(6)Monitoring and reviewing risks
Risk assessment is the part of risk management that involves
the following:
(1)Identifying sources of risk
(2)Analyzing the sources of risk to estimate a level of risk
(3)Evaluating the level of risk to determine if risk treatment
is required
(See Figure F.1.)
F.1.1 Occupational  Health  and  Safety  (OHS)  Risk  Manage‐
ment.  The same logical, systematic process and the same prin‐
ciples apply to risk management in the OHS sphere of activity.
However,   it   is   more   focused   and   the   terminology   more
narrowly defined, as follows:
(1)The  OHS  objective  is  freedom  from  harm  (i.e.,  injury  or
damage to health).
(2)Sources of risk are referred to as hazards.
(3)Analyzing  and  estimating  the  level  of  risk  is  a  combina‐
tion of the estimation of the likelihood of the occurrence
of harm and the severity of that harm.
(4)The level of risk is evaluated to determine if it is reasona‐
ble to conclude that freedom from harm can be achieved
or if further risk treatment is required.
(5)Risk treatment is referred to as risk control.
Therefore, OHS risk assessment involves the following:
(1)Hazard identification: Find, list, and characterize hazards.
(2)Risk analysis: Sources, causes, and potential consequences
are analyzed to determine the following:
a.The likelihood that harm might result
b.The potential severity of that harm
c.Estimate the level of risk
(3)Risk  evaluation:  The  level  of  risk  is  evaluated  to  deter‐
mine if the objective of freedom from harm can reasona‐
bly be met by the risk control that is in place or is further
risk control required?
F.2 Relationship  to  Occupational  Health  and  Safety  Manage‐
ment  System  (OHSMS).  As  discussed  in  Annex  P,  the  most
effective  application  of  the  requirements  of  this  standard  can
be  achieved  within  the  framework  of  an  OHSMS.  Using  a
management system provides a methodical approach to health
and safety by means of goal setting, planning, and performance
measurement.
Risk management shares the six management system process
elements of the following:
(1)Leadership.  If  any  venture  is  to  succeed  it  needs  to  be
sponsored at the highest levels of the organization.
(2)Policy.  The  organization  should  articulate  its  vision  and
establish relevant, attainable goals.
(3)Plan.  A  plan  is  developed  in  line  with  the  organization’s
vision  and  to  achieve  its  goals.  The  plan  must  include
mechanisms  to  measure  and  monitor  the  success  of  the
plan.
Establishing the context
Monitor
and
review
Hazard identification
Risk analysis
Risk evaluation
Risk control
Risk assessment
FIGURE  F.1     Risk Management Process (Adapted from ISO
31000 figure 3).
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX F
70E–70
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
(4)Do. The plan is executed.
(5)Check  (Monitor).  The  success  of  the  plan  in  achieving
the organization’s goals is continuously monitored.
(6)Act  (Review).  The  measuring  and  monitoring  results  are
compared to the organization’s goals for the purposes of
reviewing   and   revising   goals   and   plans   to   improve
performance.
As noted in F.1, risk management is iterative. The repeating
nature  of  the  management  system  plan-do-check-act  (PDCA)
cycle   is   intended   to   promote   continuous   improvement   in
health and safety performance.
Risk  assessment  fits  into  the  “plan”  and  “do”  stages  of  the
PDCA cycle, as follows:
(1)Planning:  Information  used  during  the  planning  stage
comes  from  sources  that  can  include  workplace  inspec‐
tions, incident reports, and risk assessments.
(2)Do: Risk assessment is an ongoing activity.
F.3 Hierarchy  of  Risk  Control.  The  purpose  of  specifying  and
adhering  to  a  hierarchy  of  risk  control  methods  is  to  identify
the  most  effective  individual  or  combination  of  preventive  or
protective measures to reduce the risk associated with a hazard.
Each  risk  control  method  is  considered  less  effective  than  the
one before it. Table F.3 lists the hierarchy of risk control identi‐
fied in this and other safety standards and provides examples of
each.
F.4 Hazard-Based   Risk   Assessment.  In   a   hazard-based   risk
assessment, workplace hazards are identified and characterized
for  materials,  processes,  the  worksite,  and  the  environment.
Activities that might be affected by those hazards are identified.
The risk associated with each activity is analyzed for likelihood
Table F.3  The Hierarchy of Risk Control Methods
Risk Control MethodExamples
(1) EliminationConductors and circuit parts in an 
electrically safe working condition
(2) SubstitutionReduce energy by replacing 120 V 
control circuitry with 24 Vac or Vdc 
control circuitry
(3) Engineering controlsGuard energized electrical conductors 
and circuit parts to reduce the 
likelihood of electrical contact or 
arcing faults
(4) AwarenessSigns alerting of the potential 
presence of hazards
(5) Administrative 
controls
Procedures and job planning tools
(6) PPEShock and arc flash PPE
of  harm  and  severity  of  harm.  An  organization  uses  this  infor‐
mation to prioritize risk reduction decisions.
The information from hazard-based risk assessments is useful
to  organizations  when  designing,  specifying,  and  purchasing
electrical  distribution  equipment.  Risk  control  is  much  more
effective  when  it  is  applied  at  the  beginning  of  the  equipment
or process lifecycle. Risk can be reduced by specifying “substitu‐
tion”  and  “engineering”  risk  control  methods  that  affect  the
likelihood of occurrence of harm or severity of harm.
F.5 Task-Based  Risk  Assessment.  In  a  task-based  risk  assess‐
ment,  a  job  is  broken  down  into  discrete  tasks.  Hazards  are
identified for each task (often referred to as task-hazard pairs).
The risk associated with each hazard is analyzed and evaluated.
The  task-based  risk  assessment  is  the  most  commonly  used
when performing a field level risk assessment.
F.6 Risk Assessment Methods.  There are many risk assessment
methods.  The  method  or  combination  of  methods  should  be
chosen based on the following:
(1)The application
(2)The desired result
(3)The skill level of the persons performing the assessment
Some risk assessment methods include the following:
(1)Brainstorming.   An   open   group   discussion   regarding
hazards, the associated risk, and risk control methods can
be  used  as  part  of  pre-job  planning  and  during  a  job
briefing session.
(2)Checklists. A list of common hazards and possible control
methods is a useful tool for pre-job planning and for job
briefing  purposes.  See  Annex  I  for  an  example  of  a  job
briefing and planning checklist.
(3)Risk   assessment   matrix.   A   risk   assessment   matrix   is
commonly used to quantify levels of risk. The matrix can
be  in  a  multilevel  or  a  simple  two-by-two  format.  See
Figure F.6 for an example of a risk assessment matrix.
Informational  Note:  See  ISO  31010,  Risk  management  —  Risk
assessment  techniques,  and  ANSI/AIHA  Z10-2012,  Occupational
Health  and  Safety  Management  Systems,  for  further  information
regarding risk assessment methods.
NF.7 Battery Risk Assessment.  Multiple hazards may be encoun‐
tered  when  working  on  batteries  (shock,  arc  flash,  chemical,
thermal).  PPE  selection  should  take  into  account  all  of  the
hazards  depending  on  the  task.  The  flow  chart  displayed  in
Figure  F.7  will  assist  users  to  assess  all  hazards  associated  with
work on batteries.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX F
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–71
Severity of Harm
Likelihood of
Occurrence of Harm
Improbable
Possible
Legend
Energy ≤ [Selected
Threshold]
Possible: Source of harm is not
adequately guarded to avoid contact with
hazardous energy
Energy > [Selected
Threshold]
Low
Low
Low
High
Likelihood of Occurrence of Harm 
Severity of Harm
Improbable: Source of harm is adequately
guarded to avoid contact with hazardous
energy
Identify the risk controls in place and evaluate the effectiveness of the controls.
Prioritize actions taken to control risk based on the level of risk as follows:
Low: Risk Acceptable — Further risk control discretionary
High: Risk Unacceptable — Further risk control required before proceeding
Energy ≤ [Selected Threshold]: 
Level of hazardous energy 
insufficient to cause harm
Energy > [Selected Threshold]: 
Level of hazardous energy 
insufficient to cause harm
Risk Evaluation
High
ΔFIGURE  F.6     Example of a Qualitative Two-by-Two Risk
Assessment Matrix.
No
(arc flash)
End (thermal)
No thermal PPE
required
Work involves
possibility of an
arc (3 kW min.)
Thermal hand
protection required
Start
Safety glasses,
insulated tools, no
jewelry (minimum
requirement)
System voltage
≤100 volts
Can battery be
segmented in sections
all ≤100 volts?
Ungrounded, open rack
AND single cell/unit
readings (and visual)
Shock PPE based
on maximum
reachable voltage
End (shock)
Perform an arc flash
risk assessment
before proceeding
An arc flash risk
assessment must
be completed by a
qualified engineer
prior to work
Maximum
energy
≥1.2 cal/cm
2
Any work on
main terminals
(battery not
segmented)
Arc flash PPE
required for
maximum battery
energy
(see Note 4) 
Battery
cabinet
(see Note 1)
End
(arc flash)
For other conditions/
situations not shown,
follow guidance
provided by the arc
flash risk assessment
(see Note 4)
No arc flash PPE
required
No arc flash or
shock PPE
required
Yes
Handling
electrolyte
No chemical PPE
required
Chemical PPE
required
End (chemical)
Notes:
1.  Arc flash and shock PPE may be required to put the battery in a segmented state. The
battery must also be isolated from the system.
2.  This only applies if the technician cannot reasonably reach across more than 100 volts
or if the exposed parts are protected so the technician cannot touch across more than 100
volts.
3.  If the battery terminals are more than 6 ft apart, or if at least one of the terminals is
protected, arc flash hazard PPE is not required with respect to the battery terminal risk.
4.  There may be additional procedures that can be implemented that would further reduce
the arc hazard risk and required PPE.
Arc flash risk
assessment
completed
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
Chemical
Thermal
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
(see Note 3)
Yes (see Note 1)
Yes
Arc flash/shock
No
Yes (see Note 2)
No
(shock)
Yes
N
FIGURE  F.7     Assessing Hazards Associated with Work on Batteries.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX G
70E–72
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex G   Sample Lockout/Tagout Program
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
Lockout  is  the  preferred  method  of  controlling  personnel
exposure  to  electrical  energy  hazards.  Tagout  is  an  alternative
method  that  is  available  to  employers.  The  sample  program
and  procedures  that  follow  are  provided  to  assist  employers  in
developing  a  lockout/tagout  program  and  procedures  that
meet the requirements of Article 120 of NFPA 70E.The sample
program  and  procedures  can  be  used  for  a  simple  lockout/
tagout or as part of a complex lockout/tagout. A more compre‐
hensive  procedure  will  need  to  be  developed,  documented,
and used for the complex lockout/tagout.
LOCKOUT/TAGOUT PROGRAM
FOR [COMPANY NAME]
OR
TAGOUT PROGRAM FOR [COMPANY NAME]
1.0  Purpose.  This    procedure    establishes    the    minimum
requirements  for  lockout  /tagout  of  electrical  energy  sources.
It is to be used to ensure that conductors and circuit parts are
disconnected    from    sources    of    electrical    energy,    locked
(tagged),  and  tested  before  work  begins  where  employees
could  be  exposed  to  dangerous  conditions.  Sources  of  stored
energy,  such  as  capacitors  or  springs,  shall  be  relieved  of  their
energy, and a mechanism shall be engaged to prevent the reac‐
cumulation of energy.
2.0  Responsibility.  All  employees  shall  be  instructed  in  the
safety significance of the lockout/tagout procedure. All new or
transferred employees and all other persons whose work opera‐
tions  are  or  might  be  in  the  area  shall  be  instructed  in  the
purpose and use of this procedure. [Name(s) of the person(s) or the
job  title(s)  of  the  employee(s)  with  responsibility]  shall  ensure  that
appropriate  personnel  receive  instructions  on  their  roles  and
responsibilities.  All  persons  installing  a  lockout/tagout  device
shall  sign  their  names  and  the  date  on  the  tag  [or  state  how  the
name of the individual or person in charge will be available].
3.0  Preparation for Lockout/Tagout.
3.1  Review  current  diagrammatic  drawings  (or  their  equiva‐
lent),  tags,  labels,  and  signs  to  identify  and  locate  all  discon‐
necting  means  to  determine  that  power  is  interrupted  by  a
physical  break  and  not  de-energized  by  a  circuit  interlock.
Make a list of disconnecting means to be locked (tagged).
3.2  Review  disconnecting  means  to  determine  adequacy  of
their  interrupting  ability.  Determine  if  it  will  be  possible  to
verify a visible open point, or if other precautions will be neces‐
sary.
3.3  Review other work activity to identify where and how other
personnel might be exposed to electrical hazards. Review other
energy  sources  in  the  physical  area  to  determine  employee
exposure  to  those  sources  of  other  types  of  energy.  Establish
energy control methods for control of other hazardous energy
sources in the area.
3.4  Provide  an  adequately  rated  test  instrument  to  test  each
phase  conductor  or  circuit  part  to  verify  that  they  are  de-
energized  (see  Section  G.11.3).  Provide  a  method  to  determine
that the test instrument is operating satisfactorily.
3.5  Where the possibility of induced voltages or stored electri‐
cal  energy  exists,  call  for  grounding  the  phase  conductors  or
circuit parts before touching them. Where it could be reasona‐
bly  anticipated  that  contact  with  other  exposed  energized
conductors or circuit parts is possible, call for applying ground
connecting devices.
4.0 Simple     Lockout/Tagout.  The     simple     lockout/tagout
procedure  will  involve  G.1.0  through  G.3.0,  G.5.0  through
G.9.0, and G.11.0 through G.13.0.
5.0  Sequence of Lockout/Tagout System Procedures.
5.1  The  employees  shall  be  notified  that  a  lockout/tagout
system  is  going  to  be  implemented  and  the  reason  for  it.  The
qualified   employee   implementing   the   lockout/tagout   shall
know  the  disconnecting  means  location  for  all  sources  of  elec‐
trical  energy  and  the  location  of  all  sources  of  stored  energy.
The qualified person shall be knowledgeable of hazards associ‐
ated with electrical energy.
5.2  If  the  electrical  supply  is  energized,  the  qualified  person
shall de-energize and disconnect the electric supply and relieve
all stored energy.
5.3  Wherever  possible,  the  blades  of  disconnecting  devices
should be visually verified to be fully opened, or draw-out type
circuit breakers should be verified to be completely withdrawn
to the fully disconnected position.
5.4  Lockout/tagout  all  disconnecting  means  with  lockout/
tagout devices.
Informational  Note:  For  tagout,  one  additional  safety  measure
must  be  employed,  such  as  opening,  blocking,  or  removing  an
additional circuit element.
5.5  Attempt to operate the disconnecting means to determine
that operation is prohibited.
5.6  A  test  instrument  shall  be  used.  (See  G.11.3.)  Inspect  the
instrument  for  visible  damage.  Do  not  proceed  if  there  is  an
indication  of  damage  to  the  instrument  until  an  undamaged
device is available.
5.7  Verify  proper  instrument  operation  on  a  known  source  of
voltage and then test for absence of voltage.
5.8  Verify  proper  instrument  operation  on  a  known  source  of
voltage after testing for absence of voltage.
5.9  Where  required,  install  a  grounding  equipment/conduc‐
tor  device  on  the  phase  conductors  or  circuit  parts,  to  elimi‐
nate  induced  voltage  or  stored  energy,  before  touching  them.
Where it has been determined that contact with other exposed
energized conductors or circuit parts is possible, apply ground
connecting devices rated for the available fault duty.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX G
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–73
5.10  The equipment, electrical source, or both are now locked
out (tagged out).
6.0 Restoring  the  Equipment,  Electrical  Supply,  or  Both  to
Normal Condition.
6.1  After the job or task is complete, visually verify that the job
or task is complete.
6.2  Remove  all  tools,  equipment,  and  unused  materials  and
perform appropriate housekeeping.
6.3  Remove all grounding equipment/conductors/devices.
6.4  Notify  all  personnel  involved  with  the  job  or  task  that  the
lockout/tagout  is  complete,  that  the  electrical  supply  is  being
restored,  and  that  they  are  to  remain  clear  of  the  equipment
and electrical supply.
6.5  Perform any quality control tests or checks on the repaired
or replaced equipment, electrical supply, or both.
6.6  Remove  lockout/tagout  devices.  The  person  who  installed
the devices is to remove them.
6.7  Notify  the  owner  of  the  equipment,  electrical  supply,  or
both, that the equipment, electrical supply, or both are ready to
be returned to normal operation.
6.8  Return  the  disconnecting  means  to  their  normal  condi‐
tion.
7.0 Procedure Involving More Than One Person.  For a simple
lockout/tagout and where more than one person is involved in
the  job  or  task,  each  person  shall  install  his  or  her  own
personal lockout/tagout device.
8.0 Procedure  Involving  More  Than  One  Shift.  When  the
lockout/tagout extends for more than one day, it shall be veri‐
fied that the lockout/tagout is still in place at the beginning of
the next day. When the lockout/tagout is continued on succes‐
sive  shifts,  the  lockout/tagout  is  considered  to  be  a  complex
lockout/tagout.
For  a  complex  lockout/tagout,  the  person  in  charge  shall
identify  the  method  for  transfer  of  the  lockout/tagout  and  of
communication with all employees.
9.0 Complex    Lockout/Tagout.  A    complex    lockout/tagout
plan is required where one or more of the following exist:
(1)Multiple energy sources (more than one)
(2)Multiple crews
(3)Multiple crafts
(4)Multiple locations
(5)Multiple employers
(6)Unique disconnecting means
(7)Complex or particular switching sequences
(8)Lockout/tagout for more than one shift; that is, new shift
workers
9.1  All  complex  lockout/tagout  procedures  shall  require  a
written  plan  of  execution.  The  plan  shall  include  the  require‐
ments  in  G.1.0  through  G.3.0,  G.5.0,  G.6.0,  and  G.8.0  through
G.12.0.
9.2  A  person  in  charge  shall  be  involved  with  a  complex  lock‐
out/tagout  procedure.  The  person  in  charge  shall  be  at  the
procedure location.
9.3  The person in charge shall develop a written plan of execu‐
tion and communicate that plan to all persons engaged in the
job or task. The person in charge shall be held accountable for
safe   execution   of   the   complex   lockout/tagout   plan.   The
complex lockout/tagout plan must address all the concerns of
employees  who  might  be  exposed,  and  they  must  understand
how electrical energy is controlled. The person in charge shall
ensure  that  each  person  understands  the  electrical  hazards  to
which  they  are  exposed  and  the  safety-related  work  practices
they are to use.
9.4  All  complex  lockout/tagout  plans  identify  the  method  to
account  for  all  persons  who  might  be  exposed  to  electrical
hazards in the course of the lockout/tagout.
One of the following methods is to be used:
(1)Each individual shall install his or her own personal lock‐
out or tagout device.
(2)The person in charge shall lock his/her key in a lock box.
(3)The  person  in  charge  shall  maintain  a  sign-in/sign-out
log for all personnel entering the area.
(4)Another equally effective methodology shall be used.
9.5  The  person  in  charge  can  install  locks/tags  or  direct  their
installation on behalf of other employees.
9.6  The person in charge can remove locks/tags or direct their
removal on behalf of other employees, only after all personnel
are  accounted  for  and  ensured  to  be  clear  of  potential  electri‐
cal hazards.
9.7  Where the complex lockout/tagout is continued on succes‐
sive  shifts,  the  person  in  charge  shall  identify  the  method  for
transfer of the lockout and the method of communication with
all employees.
10.0  Discipline.
10.1  Knowingly violating the requirements of this program will
result in [state disciplinary actions that will be taken].
10.2  Knowingly   operating   a   disconnecting   means   with   an
installed lockout device (tagout device) will result in [state disci‐
plinary actions to be taken].
11.0  Equipment.
11.1  Locks shall be [state type and model of selected locks].
11.2  Tags shall be [state type and model to be used].
11.3  The  test  instrument(s)  to  be  used  shall  be  [state  type  and
model].
12.0  Review.  This  program  was  last  reviewed  on  [date]  and  is
scheduled  to  be  reviewed  again  on  [date]  (not  more  than
1 year from the last review).
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX G
70E–74
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
13.0 Lockout/Tagout   Training.  Recommended   training   can
include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1)Recognition of lockout/tagout devices
(2)Installation of lockout/tagout devices
(3)Duty of employer in writing procedures
(4)Duty of employee in executing procedures
(5)Duty of person in charge
(6)Authorized and unauthorized removal of locks/tags
(7)Enforcement of execution of lockout/tagout procedures
(8)Simple lockout/tagout
(9)Complex lockout/tagout
(10)Use of single-line and diagrammatic drawings to identify
sources of energy
(11)Alerting techniques
(12)Release of stored energy
(13)Personnel accounting methods
(14)Temporary  protective  grounding  equipment  needs  and
requirements
(15)Safe use of test instruments
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX H
70E–75
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex H    Guidance on Selection of Protective Clothing and Other Personal
Protective Equipment (PPE)
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
H.1 Arc-Rated  Clothing  and  Other  Personal  Protective  Equip‐
ment  (PPE)  for  Use  with  Arc  Flash  PPE  Categories.  Table
130.5(C),  Table  130.7(C)(15)(a),  Table  130.7(C)(15)(b),  and
Table  130.7(C)(15)(c)  provide  guidance  for  the  selection  and
use of PPE when using arc flash PPE categories.
H.2 Simplified  Two-Category  Clothing  Approach  for  Use  with
Table   130.7(C)(15)(a),   Table   130.7(C)(15)(b),   and   Table
130.7(C)(15)(c).  The use of Table H.2 is a simplified approach
to provide minimum PPE for electrical workers within facilities
with large and diverse electrical systems. The clothing listed in
Table H.2 fulfills the minimum arc-rated clothing requirements
of  Table  130.7(C)(15)(a),  Table  130.7(C)(15)(b),  and  Table
130.7(C)(15)(c).   The   clothing   systems   listed   in   this   table
should be used with the other PPE appropriate for the arc flash
PPE  category  [see  Table  130.7(C)(15)(c)].  The  notes  to  Table
130.7(C)(15)(a),  Table  130.7(C)(15)(b),  and  Table  130.7(C)
(15)(c) must apply as shown in those tables.
H.3 Arc-Rated  Clothing  and  Other  Personal  Protective  Equip‐
ment   (PPE)   for   Use   with   Risk   Assessment   of   Electrical
Hazards.  Table  H.3  provides  a  summary  of  specific  sections
within  the  NFPA  70E  standard  describing  PPE  for  electrical
hazards.
H.4 Conformity Assessment of Personal Protective Equipment
(PPE).
H.4.1  Introduction.  Section   130.7(C)(14)   requires   personal
protective  equipment  (PPE)  provided  by  a  supplier  or  manu‐
facturer to conform to appropriate product standards by one of
three  methods.  Additional  information  for  these  conformity
assessment methods can be found within ANSI/ISEA 125, Amer‐
ican  National  Standard  for  Conformity  Assessment  of  Safety  and
Personal Protective Equipment. ANSI/ISEA 125 establishes criteria
for  conformity  assessment  of  safety  and  PPE  that  is  sold  with
claims  of  compliance  with  product  performance  standards.
ANSI/ISEA 125 contains provisions for data collection, product
verification,    conformation    of    quality    and    manufacturing
production control, and roles and responsibilities of suppliers,
testing  organizations,  and  third-party  certification  organiza‐
tions.
H.4.2 Level of Conformity.  ANSI/ISEA 125 provides for three
different levels of conformity assessment: Level 1, Level 2, and
Level 3.
Level  1  conformity  is  where  the  supplier  or  manufacturer  is
making  a  self-declaration  that  a  product  meets  all  of  the
requirements   of   the   standard(s)   to   which   conformance   is
claimed.  A  supplier  Declaration  of  Conformity  for  each  prod‐
uct  is  required  to  be  made  available  for  examination  upon
request.
Level  2  conformity  is  where  the  supplier  or  manufacturer  is
making  a  self-declaration  that  a  product  meets  all  of  the
requirements   of   the   standard(s)   to   which   conformance   is
claimed,   the   supplier   or   manufacturer   has   a   registered
ISO  9001  Quality  Management  System  or  equivalent  quality
management system, and all testing has been carried out by an
ISO 17025 accredited testing laboratory. A supplier Declaration
of  Conformity  for  each  product  is  required  to  be  made  availa‐
ble for examination upon request.
Level 3 conformity is where the products are certified by an
ISO   17065   accredited   independent   third-party   certification
organization  (CO).  All  product  testing  is  directed  by  the  CO,
and all changes to the product must be reviewed and retested if
necessary.  Compliant  products  are  issued  a  Declaration  of
Table H.2 Simplified Two-Category, Arc-Rated Clothing System
Clothing
a
Applicable Situations
Everyday Work Clothing
Arc-rated long-sleeve shirt with arc-rated pants 
(minimum arc rating of 8) or
Arc-rated coveralls 
(minimum arc rating of 8)
Situations where a risk assessment indicates that 
PPE is required and where Table 130.7(C)(15)(a) 
and Table 130.7(C)(15)(b) specify arc flash PPE 
category 1 or 2
b
Arc Flash Suit
A total clothing system consisting of arc-rated 
shirt and pants and/or arc-rated coveralls 
and/or arc flash coat and pants (clothing 
system minimum arc rating of 40)
Situations where a risk assessment indicates that 
PPE is required and where Table 130.7(C)(15)(a) 
and Table 130.7(C)(15)(b) specify arc flash PPE 
category 3 or 4
b
a
Note that other PPE listed in Table 130.7(C)(15)(c), which include arc-rated face shields or arc flash suit
hoods, arc-rated hard hat liners, safety glasses or safety goggles, hard hats, hearing protection, heavy-duty
leather gloves, rubber insulating gloves, and leather protectors, could be required. The arc rating for a
garment is expressed in cal/cm
2
.
b
The estimated available fault current capacities and fault clearing times or arcing durations are listed in the
text of Table 130.7(C)(15)(a) and Table 130.7(C)(15)(b). For power systems with greater than the estimated
available fault current capacity or with longer than the assumed fault clearing times, Table H.2 cannot be used
and arc flash PPE must be determined and selected by means of an incident energy analysis in accordance with
130.5(G).
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX H
70E–76
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Conformity by the CO and products are marked with the CO’s
mark or label.
H.4.3  Equivalence.  While  there  are  three  levels  of  conformity
assessment  described  in  ANSI/ISEA  125,  the  levels  are  not  to
be considered as equivalent. Users are cautioned that the level
of  rigor  required  to  demonstrate  conformity  should  be  based
on  the  potential  safety  and  health  consequence  of  using  a
product  that  does  not  meet  a  stated  performance  standard.  A
higher potential safety and health consequence associated with
the use of a noncompliant product should necessitate a higher
level of conformity assessment.
H.4.4 Supplier’s  Declaration  of  Conformity.  A  Declaration  of
Conformity  should  be  issued  by  the  supplier  and  made  availa‐
ble  for  examination  upon  request  from  a  customer,  user,  or
relevant  authority.  The  Declaration  of  Conformity  should,  at  a
minimum:
(1)List the supplier name and address.
(2)Include  a  product  model  number  or  other  identification
details.
(3)List   the   product   performance   standard   or   standards
(designation and year) to which conformance is claimed.
(4)Include a statement of attestation.
(5)Be  dated,  written  on  supplier  letterhead,  and  signed  by
an  authorized  representative.  The  name  and  title  of  the
authorized representative should also be printed.
Additional information should include:
(1)The level of conformity followed
(2)Whether the ISO 17025 testing facility is an independent
or  in-house  laboratory  (owned  or  partially  owned  by  an
entity  within  the  supplier’s  corporate  structure  or  within
the  manufacturing  stream  for  the  applicable  product,
including subcontractors and sub-suppliers)
(3)Reference  to  the  test  report  (title,  number,  date,  etc.)
that serves as the basis of determining conformity
For  an  example  of  a  Supplier’s  Declaration  of  Conformity
see Figure H.4.4.
H.4.5  References.  ANSI/ISEA  contains  detailed  information
and  guidance  on  the  application  of  the  different  conformity
assessment  levels.  Copies  of  ANSI/ISEA  125  are  available  free
of charge by emailing the International Safety Equipment Asso‐
ciation at ISEA@Safetyequipment.org and requesting a compli‐
mentary copy.
Table H.3  Summary of Specific Sections Describing PPE for Electrical Hazards
Shock Hazard PPEApplicable Section(s)
Rubber insulating gloves and leather protectors, unless the requirements of 
ASTM F496 are met
130.7(C)(7)(a)
Rubber insulating sleeves as needed130.7(C)(7)(a)
Class G or E hard hat as needed130.7(C)(3)
Safety glasses or goggles as needed130.7(C)(4)
Dielectric overshoes as needed130.7(C)(8)
Incident Energy Exposures Greater than or Equal to 1.2 cal/cm
2
 (5 J/cm
2
)
Clothing:
Arc-rated clothing system with an arc rating appropriate to the 
anticipated incident energy exposure
130.7(C)(1), 130.7(C)(2), 130.7(C)(6), 130.7(C)(9)(d)
Clothing underlayers (when used):
Arc-rated or nonmelting untreated natural fiber
130.7(C)(9)(c), 130.7(C)(11), 130.7(C)(12)
Gloves:130.7(C)(7)(b), 130.7(C)(10)(d)
    Exposures greater than or equal to 1.2 cal/cm
2
(5 J/cm
2
) and less than or 
equal to 8 cal/cm
2
 (33.5 J/cm
2
): heavy-duty leather gloves
    Exposures greater than 8 cal/cm
2
 (33.5 J/cm
2
): rubber insulating gloves 
with their leather protectors or arc-rated gloves
Hard hat:
Class G or E
130.7(C)(1), 130.7(C)(3)
Face shield:130.7(C)(1), 130.7(C)(3), 130.7(C)(10)(a), 130.7(C)(10)
(b), 130.7(C)(10)(c)    Exposures greater than or equal to 1.2 cal/cm
2
(5 J/cm
2
) and less than or 
equal to 12 cal/cm
2
 (50.2 J/cm
2
): Arc-rated face shield that covers the 
face, neck, and chin and an arc-rated balaclava or an arc-rated arc flash 
suit hood
    Exposures greater than 12 cal/cm
2
 (50.2 J/cm
2
): arc-rated arc flash suit 
hood
Safety glasses or goggles130.7(C)(4), 130.7(C)(10)(c)
Hearing protection130.7(C)(5)
Footwear:130.7(C)(10)(e)
    Exposures less than or equal to 4 cal/cm
2
 (16.75 J/cm
2
): Heavy-duty 
leather footwear (as needed)
    Exposures greater than 4 cal/cm
2
 (16.75 J/cm
2
): Heavy-duty leather 
footwear
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX H
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–77
Supplier’s Declaration of Conformity
No. 
Documents No.
Additional information:
Signed for and on behalf of:
Place and date of issue
(Name, function)(Signature or equivalent authorized by the issuer)
TitleEdition/Date of issue
Issuer’s name:
Issuer’s address:
Object of the declaration:
The object of the declaration described above is in conformity with the
following documents:
FIGURE  H.4.4     Supplier’s Declaration of Conformity.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX I
70E–78
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex I   Job Briefing and Job Safety Planning Checklist
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
ΔI.1 Job  Briefing  Checklist.  Figure  I.1  illustrates  considerations
for a job briefing checklist.
NI.2 Job Safety Planning Checklist.  Figure I.2 illustrates consid‐
erations for a job safety planning checklist.
Identify
❏  Hazards
❏  Voltage levels involved
❏  Skills required
❏  Any “foreign” (secondary   
 source) voltage source
❏  Any unusual work conditions
❏  Number of people needed to   
 do the job
Ask
❏  Can the equipment be 
 de-energized?
❏  Are backfeeds of the circuits 
 to be worked on possible?
❏ Is an energized electrical   
 work permit required?
Check
❏  Job plans
❏  Single-line diagrams and 
 vendor prints
❏  Status board
❏  Information on plant and 
 vendor resources is up to date
Know
❏  What the job is
❏  Who else needs to know  — 
 Communicate!
Think
❏  About the unexpected 
 event . . . What if?
❏  Lock — Tag — Test — Try
❏  Test for voltage — FIRST
❏  Use the right tools and   
 equipment, including PPE
Prepare for an emergency
❏  Is the standby person   
 CPR/AED trained?
❏  Is the required emergency 
 equipment available? 
 Where is it?
❏  Where is the nearest 
 telephone?
❏  Where is the fire alarm?
❏  Is confined space rescue 
 available?
❏   Shock protection
      boundaries
❏   Available incident energy
❏   Potential for arc flash 
 (Conduct an arc flash risk      
 assessment.)
❏   Arc flash boundary
❏   Any evidence of impending
 failure? 
❏  Is a standby person   
 required?
❏  Is the equipment properly
 installed and maintained?
❏  Safety procedures
❏  Vendor information
❏  Individuals are familiar with     
 the facility
❏  Who is in charge
❏  Install and remove temporary  
 protective grounding   
 equipment
❏  Install barriers and barricades
❏  What else . . . ?
❏  What is the exact work 
 location?
❏  How is the equipment shut off 
 in an emergency?
❏  Are the emergency telephone 
 numbers known?
❏  Where is the fire extinguisher?
❏  Are radio communications 
 available?
❏  Is an AED available?
ΔFIGURE  I.1     Sample Job Briefing Checklist.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX I
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–79
© 2020 National Fire Protection Association
NFPA 70E (p. 1 of 2)
Is the required working distance available?  
If Yes, proceed to Line 7. 
If No, additional risk assessment is required before
completing Section D or E or performing any work.
Proceed to Line 7.  
Voltage between phases:
Limited approach boundary:
Restricted approach boundary:
Establish the shock boundaries.
Proceed to Line 8.
Minimum voltage rating for
insulating blankets
Establish minimum voltage rating.
Proceed to Line 13.
Job Safety Planning Checklist
Qualified submitter:
Equipment:
Task:
Location:
Section A, General
Mark “Y” or “N” as appropriate
Instructions
Section B, Shock Hazard Information
Use Table 130.4(D)(a) for ac system boundaries or Table 130.4(D)(b) for dc system boundaries
Section C, Shock Control Information
Mark “Y” or “N” as appropriate
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
Is there justification for the energized work?
a. Equipment operating at less than 50 volts
b. Additional hazard or increased risk
c. Infeasible to de-energize
d. Normal operating condition
Will the worker be exposed to energized
parts?
Is there an arc flash hazard?
Were any of the answers to Questions 3 or 4
yes?
Did the arc flash risk assessment determine
that additional protective measures are
required?
Will the task require the worker to cross the
restricted approach boundary?
Will rubber insulating gloves and leather
protectors be used for the task?
Minimum glove class required for
insulating gloves
Will insulating blankets be used for the task?
If No, shock protection controls are discretionary.
Proceed to Section D or E as appropriate.
If Yes, shock protection controls are required.
Proceed to Line 9.
If Yes, proceed to Line 10.
If No, proceed to Line 11.
Establish minimum glove class.
Proceed to Line 11.
If Yes, proceed to Line 12.
If No, proceed to Line 13.
No.
Item
Yes  No
If No, the equipment must be placed in an electrically
safe working condition.
If Yes, complete 1a, 1b, and 1c, and shock and arc
flash risk assessments are required to determine the
appropriate hazard controls. 
Proceed to Line 2.
If No, a shock risk assessment is discretionary and
completing Sections B and C is optional.
Proceed to Line 3.
If No, arc flash risk assessment is discretionary and
completing Sections D or E and F is optional.
Proceed to Line 4.
If No, further risk assessment is discretionary.
If Yes, proceed to Line 5.
If No, completing Parts D or E and F is discretionary.
If Yes, Part D or E is required to be completed.
Proceed to Line 6.
Date:
N
FIGURE  I.2     Sample Job Safety Planning Checklist.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX I
70E–80
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
© 2020 National Fire Protection Association
NFPA 70E (p. 2 of 2)
Mark “Y” or “N” as appropriate
Mark “Y” or “N” as appropriate
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
Are insulated or insulating hand tools required
for the task?
Incident energy:
If Yes, proceed to Line 14.
If No, proceed to Section D or E as applicable.
Identify the hand tools, including the
minimum voltage rating required.
Proceed to Section D or E as applicable.
Include: the arc flash boundary and at least one of
the following: the incident energy and the working
distance or the level of PPE or the minimum arc rating
of clothing.
Proceed to Section F.
Section D, Arc Flash Control Information ― Incident Energy Analysis Method
Use information from incident energy study
Level of PPE:
Section E, Arc Flash Hazard Control Information ― Arc Flash PPE Category Method
Use Table 130.5(C)(15)(a) for ac systems or Table 130.7(C)(15)(b) for dc systems
Determine the estimated available fault current and clearing times for the task.
Available fault current:
Do the estimated available fault current and
clearing times for the task exceed the
maximum allowed by 
T
able 130.7(C)(15)(a) or
Table 130.7(C)(15)(b)?
Arc flash boundary:
Arc flash PPE category:
Section F, Arc‐Rated Clothing and Other Arc Flash Protection Equipment Information
Section G, Energy Source Controls
Section H, Work Procedures and Special Precautions
Minimum arc rating in cal/cm
2
 for protective clothing
and other PPE
Establish the required arc‐rated clothing and
other PPE.
List the required arc
List all sources of electrical supply to the
specific equipment.
List specific work procedures required to complete
the task.
List any special precautions needed to safely complete
the task (i.e., discharge time for capacitors).
Include location and method to lock or tag.
List temporary protective grounding equipment.
Include method to verify and test for absence
of voltage.
‐rated clothing and other
arc flash PPE.
PPE Category Method: Use 130.7(C)(15)(c) and
Table 130.7(C)(15)(c).
Incident Energy Analysis Method: Use
130.5(G) and Table 130.5(G).
If Yes, an incident energy analysis is required.
If No, proceed to Line 18.
Proceed to Line 19.
Proceed to Line 20 and 21, Section F.
Working distance:
Working distance:
Overcurrent device clearing time:
Minimum arc rating of clothing:
Arc flash boundary:
N
FIGURE  I.2     Continued
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX J
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–81
Informative Annex J   Energized Electrical Work Permit
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
J.1 Energized  Electrical  Work  Permit  Sample.  Figure  J.1  illus‐
trates considerations for an energized electrical work permit.
© 2020 National Fire Protection Association NFPA 70E
ENERGIZED ELECTRICAL WORK PERMIT
 Requester/Title Date
PART I: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE REQUESTER:
      Job/Work Order Number
   (1)   Description of circuit/equipment/job location:
  
   (2)   Description of work to be done:
   (3)   Justification of why the circuit/equipment cannot be de-energized or the work deferred until the next scheduled outage:
  
  
 
      
PART II: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE ELECTRICALLY QUALIFIED PERSONS 
DOING THE WORK:
       Check when
       complete
   (1)   Detailed description of the job procedures to be used in performing the above detailed work:
   (2)   Description of the safe work practices to be employed:
   (3)   Results of the shock risk assessment:
    (a) Voltage to which personnel will be exposed
    (b) Limited approach boundary
    (c) Restricted approach boundary
    (d) Necessary shock, personal, and other protective equipment to safely perform assigned task
  
   (4)   Results of the arc flash risk assessment:
    (a) Available incident energy at the working distance or arc flash PPE category
    (b) Necessary arc flash personal and other protective equipment to safely perform the assigned task
    (c) Arc flash boundary
   (5)   Means employed to restrict the access of unqualified persons from the work area:
   (6)   Evidence of completion of a job briefing, including discussion of any job-related hazards:
   (7)   Do you agree the above-described work can be done safely?       ❏  Yes   ❏  No   (If no, return to requester.)
 
     Electrically Qualified Person(s) Date
     Electrically Qualified Person(s) Date
PART III: APPROVAL(S) TO PERFORM THE WORK WHILE ELECTRICALLY ENERGIZED:
     Manufacturing Manager Maintenance/Engineering Manager
     Safety Manager Electrically Knowledgeable Person
     General Manager Date
Note: Once the work is complete, forward this form to the site Safety Department for review and retention.
ΔFIGURE  J.1     Sample Permit for Energized Electrical Work.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX J
70E–82
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
J.2 Energized   Electrical   Work   Permit.  Figure   J.2   illustrates
items to consider when determining the need for an energized
electrical work permit.
What is
the voltage
level?
The decision to 
de-energize 
should include 
consideration of 
the capacity of the 
electrical source 
and any overcurrent 
protection (fuse 
or circuit breaker) 
between the source 
and the worker.
Apply good 
maintenance 
practices and 
protect the 
electrical systems 
and parts from 
mechanical 
damage.
Follow Section 130.7
for PPE requirements.
Permit to Work required 
(as applicable at location)
No Energized Electrical 
Work Permit required
Start
Greater than 
or equal to 
50 volts
Less than
50 volts
No
No
YesYesYes
Are there 
exposed live 
parts?
What 
type of work is 
to be performed?
Will any physical
alterations be done, such
as making or tightening 
connections or removing 
or replacing 
components?
Will the 
equipment be 
put in an electrically 
safe work condition?
• Disconnected
• Locked out
• Tested
• Grounded
Follow Lockout/Tagout 
(Section 120.2).
Permit to Work required 
(as applicable at 
location)
Is the 
equipment now 
in an electrically 
safe work condition?
• Disconnected
• Locked out
• Tested
• Grounded
Proceed to Work
SAFELY
Test Before Touch        Identify the Hazards        Follow All Safe Work Practices That Apply
Follow Section 130.7
for PPE requirements.
Permit to Work required 
(as applicable at location)
Energized Electrical 
Work Permit required
No
No
Yes
ΔFIGURE  J.2     Energized Electrical Work Permit Flow Chart.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX K
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–83
Informative Annex K   General Categories of Electrical Hazards
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
K.1  General.  Electrical  injuries  represent  a  serious  workplace
health and safety issue to electrical and non-electrical workers.
Data  from  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics  (BLS)  indicate
that  there  were  nearly  6000  fatal  electrical  injuries  to  workers
in  the  United  States  from  1992  through  2012.  BLS  data  also
indicate  that  there  were  24,100  non-fatal  electrical  injuries
from  2003  through  2012.  From  1992  to  2013,  the  number  of
fatal   workplace   electrical   injuries   has   fallen   steadily   and
dramatically  from  334  in  1992  to  139  in  2013.  However,  the
trend   with   non-fatal   electrical   injuries   is   less   consistent.
Between  2003  and  2009,  non-fatal  injury  totals  ranged  from
2390  in  2003  to  2620  in  2009,  with  a  high  of  2950  injuries  in
2005.  Non-fatal  injury  totals  between  2010  through  2012  were
the lowest over this 10-year period, with 1890 non-fatal injuries
in 2010, 2250 in 2011, and 1700 in 2012.
There are two general categories of electrical injury: electri‐
cal  shock  and  electrical  burns.  Electrical  burns  can  be  further
subdivided  into  burns  caused  by  radiant  energy  (arc  burns),
burns  caused  by  exposure  to  ejected  hot  gases  and  materials
(thermal  burns),  and  burns  caused  by  the  conduction  of  elec‐
trical current through body parts (conduction burns). In addi‐
tion,  hearing  damage  can  occur  from  acoustic  energy,  and
traumatic  injury  can  be  caused  by  toxic  gases  and  pressure
waves associated with an arcing event.
About 98 percent of fatal occupational electrical injuries are
electrical shock injuries. A corporate case study examining elec‐
trical    injury    reporting    and    safety    practices    found    that
40 percent of electrical incidents involved 250 volts or less and
were indicative of a misperception of electrical safety as a high-
voltage  issue.  In  addition,  electrical  incidents  once  again  were
found  to  involve  a  large  share  of  non-electrical  workers,  with
approximately  one-half  of  incidents  involving  workers  from
outside   electrical   crafts.   Research   of   electrical   fatalities   in
construction  found  that  the  highest  proportion  of  fatalities
occurred  in  establishments  with  10  or  fewer  employees  and
pointed  out  that  smaller  employers  could  have  fewer  formal
training  requirements  and  less  structured  training  in  safety
practices.
K.2 Electric  Shock.  Over  40  percent  of  all  electrical  fatalities
in the U.S. involved overhead power line contact. This includes
overhead  power  line  fatalities  from  direct  contact  by  a  worker,
contact  through  hand-carried  objects,  and  contact  through
machines  and  vehicles.  Comparing  the  ratio  of  total  electrical
fatalities  to  total  electrical  injuries  (fatal  and  nonfatal),  it  was
noticed  that  electrical  injuries  are  more  often  fatal  than  many
other  injury  categories.  For  example,  from  2003  to  2009  there
were  20,033  electrical  injuries  of  which  1573  were  fatalities.
One  worker  died  for  every  12.74  electrical  injuries.  For  the
same  period  there  were  1,718,219  fall  injuries  of  which  5279
were fatalities — one worker died for every 325 injuries.
Of those, 1573 were electrical fatalities. A more detailed look
at the demographics for 168 electrical fatalities in 2009 showed
that 99 percent of deaths were the result of electrocution, and
70   percent   occurred   while   the   worker   was   performing   a
constructing, repairing, or cleaning activity.
K.3  Arc Flash.  In the recently issued 29 CFR Subpart V, OSHA
identified  99  injuries  that  involved  burns  from  arcs  from  ener‐
gized equipment faults or failures, resulting in 21 fatalities and
94  hospitalized  injuries  for  the  period  January  1991  through
December 1998.
Based  on  this  data,  OSHA  estimated  that  an  average  of  at
least  eight  burn  injuries  from  arcs  occur  each  year  involving
employees  doing  work  covered  by  OSHA  rules,  leading  to
12  non-fatal  injuries  and  two  fatalities  per  year.  Of  the  reports
indicating  the  extent  of  the  burn  injury,  75  percent  reported
third-degree burns.
During  the  period  involved,  Federal  OSHA  only  required
non-fatal  injuries  to  be  reported  when  there  were  three  or
more  workers  hospitalized.  OSHA  found  that  there  were  six
injuries  for  every  fatality  in  California,  which  requires  the
reporting of every hospitalized injury.
Using  that  data,  OSHA  estimated  that  would  be  at  least
36  injuries  to  every  fatality,  and  probably  many  more.  Also,
many  non-fatal  electric  shocks  involve  burns  from  associated
electric arcs.
Starting January 1, 2015, Federal OSHA requires every hospi‐
talized injury to be reported.
K.4 Arc  Blast.  The  tremendous  temperatures  of  the  arc  cause
the  explosive  expansion  of  both  the  surrounding  air  and  the
metal in the arc path. For example, copper expands by a factor
of  67,000  times  when  it  turns  from  a  solid  to  a  vapor.  The
danger associated with this expansion is one of high pressures,
sound,  and  shrapnel.  The  high  pressures  can  easily  exceed
hundreds or even thousands of pounds per square foot, knock‐
ing  workers  off  ladders,  rupturing  eardrums,  and  collapsing
lungs.  Finally,  material  and  molten  metal  are  expelled  away
from the arc at speeds exceeding 1120 km/hr (700 mph), fast
enough for shrapnel to completely penetrate the human body.
K.5 Other    Information.  For    additional    information,    the
following documents are available:
Occupational  Injuries  From  Electrical  Shock  and  Arc  Flash  Events
Final  Report,  by  Richard  Campbell,  and  David  Dini,  Sponsored
by The Fire Protection Research Foundation, Quincy, MA.
Occupational  Electrical  Injuries  in  the  US,  2003–2009,  by  James
Cawley and Brett C. Banner, ESFI.
Technical   paper   ESW   2012-24   presented   at   IEEE   ESW
conference,  Arc  Flash  Hazards,  Incident  Energy,  PPE  Ratings  and
Thermal Burn Injury — A Deeper Look, by Tammy Gammon, Wei-
Jen Lee, and Ben Johnson.
Technical   Paper   ESW   2015-17   presented   at   IEEE   ESW
conference,  OSHA  Subpart  V,  Electric  Power  and  Distribution,
April 11, 2014.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX L
70E–84
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex L   Typical Application of Safeguards in the Cell Line Working Zone
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
L.1 Application    of    Safeguards.  This    informative    annex
permits  a  typical  application  of  safeguards  in  electrolytic  areas
where electrical hazards exist. Take, for example, an employee
working  on  an  energized  cell.  The  employee  uses  manual
contact  to  make  adjustments  and  repairs.  Consequently,  the
exposed   energized   cell   and   grounded   metal   floor   could
present  an  electrical  hazard.  Safeguards  for  this  employee  can
be provided in the following ways:
(1)Protective  boots  can  be  worn  that  isolate  the  employee’s
feet from the floor and that provide a safeguard from the
electrical hazard.
(2)Protective gloves can be worn that isolate the employee’s
hands  from  the  energized  cell  and  that  provide  a  safe‐
guard.
(3)If  the  work  task  causes  severe  deterioration,  wear,  or
damage  to  personal  protective  equipment  (PPE),  the
employee  might  have  to  wear  both  protective  gloves  and
boots.
(4)A  permanent  or  temporary  insulating  surface  can  be
provided  for  the  employee  to  stand  on  to  provide  a  safe‐
guard.
(5)The design of the installation can be modified to provide
a conductive surface for the employee to stand on. If the
conductive surface is bonded to the cell, a safeguard will
be provided by voltage equalization.
(6)Safe  work  practices  can  provide  safeguards.  If  protective
boots  are  worn,  the  employee  should  not  make  long
reaches over energized (or grounded) surfaces such that
his  or  her  elbow  bypasses  the  safeguard.  If  such  move‐
ments are required, protective sleeves, protective mats, or
special  tools  should  be  used.  Training  on  the  nature  of
electrical  hazards  and  proper  use  and  condition  of  safe‐
guards is, in itself, a safeguard.
(7)The energized cell can be temporarily bonded to ground.
L.2 Electrical  Power  Receptacles.  Power  supply  circuits  and
receptacles in the cell line area for portable electric equipment
should  meet  the  requirements  of  668.21  of  NFPA  70,  National
Electrical Code. However, it is recommended that receptacles for
portable electric equipment not be installed in electrolytic cell
areas  and  that  only  pneumatic-powered  portable  tools  and
equipment be used.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX M
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–85
Informative Annex M   Layering of Protective Clothing and Total System Arc Rating
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
M.1  Layering of Protective Clothing.
M.1.1  Layering of arc-rated clothing is an effective approach to
achieving  the  required  arc  rating  when  the  layers  have  been
tested  together  to  determine  the  composite  rating.  The  use  of
all arc-rated clothing layers will result in achieving the required
arc rating with the lowest number of layers and lowest clothing
system  weight.  Garments  that  are  not  arc  rated  should  not  be
used  to  increase  the  arc  rating  of  a  garment  or  of  a  clothing
system.
M.1.2 A total system of protective clothing can be determined
to  take  credit  for  the  protection  provided  by  all  the  layers  of
clothing that are worn
 if tested as a combination. For example,
to  achieve  an  arc  rating  of  40  cal/cm
2
  (167.5  J/cm
2
),  an  arc
flash suit with an arc rating of 40 cal/cm
2
 (167.5 J/cm
2
) could
be  worn  over  a  cotton  shirt  and  cotton  pants.  Alternatively,  an
arc flash suit with a 25 cal/cm
2
 (104.7 J/cm
2
) arc rating could
be worn over an arc-rated shirt and arc-rated pants with an arc
rating  of  8  cal/cm
2
  (33.5  J/cm
2
)  to  achieve  a  total  system  arc
rating   of   40   cal/cm
2
   (167.5   J/cm
2
).   This   latter   approach
provides  the  required  arc  rating  at  a  lower  weight  and  with
fewer  total  layers  of  fabric  and,  consequently,  would  provide
the required protection with a higher level of worker comfort.
M.2 Layering  Using  Arc-Rated  Clothing  over  Natural  Fiber
Clothing Underlayers.
M.2.1  Under  some  exposure  conditions,  natural  fiber  under‐
layers  can  ignite  even  when  they  are  worn  under  arc-rated
clothing.
M.2.2  If  the  arc  flash  exposure  is  sufficient  to  break  open  all
the  arc-rated  clothing  outerlayer  or  underlayers,  the  natural
fiber underlayer can ignite and cause more severe burn injuries
to  an  expanded  area  of  the  body.  This  is  due  to  the  natural
fiber underlayers burning onto areas of the worker’s body that
were  not  exposed  by  the  arc  flash  event.  This  can  occur  when
the natural fiber underlayer continues to burn underneath arc-
rated clothing layers even in areas in which the arc-rated cloth‐
ing  layer  or  layers  are  not  broken  open  due  to  a  “chimney
effect.”
M.3  Total System Arc Rating.
M.3.1  The  total  system  arc  rating  is  the  arc  rating  obtained
when all clothing layers worn by a worker are tested as a multi‐
layer  test  sample.  An  example  of  a  clothing  system  is  an  arc-
rated  coverall  worn  over  an  arc-rated  shirt  and  arc-rated  pants
in which all of the garments are constructed from the same arc-
rated fabric. For this two-layer arc-rated clothing system, the arc
rating  would  typically  be  more  than  three  times  higher  than
the arc ratings of the individual layers; that is, if the arc ratings
of  the  arc-rated  coverall,  shirt,  and  pants  were  all  in  the  range
of  5  cal/cm
2
  (20.9  J/cm
2
)  to  6  cal/cm
2
  (25.1  J/cm
2
),  the  total
two-layer   system   arc   rating   would   be   over   20   cal/cm
2
(83.7 J/cm
2
).
M.3.2  It  is  important  to  understand  that  the  total  system  arc
rating  cannot  be  determined  by  adding  the  arc  ratings  of  the
individual  layers.  In  a  few  cases,  it  has  been  observed  that  the
total  system  arc  rating  actually  decreased  when  another  arc-
rated  layer  of  a  specific  type  was  added  to  the  system  as  the
outermost layer. The only way to determine the total system arc
rating is to conduct a multilayer arc test on the combination of
all of the layers assembled as they would be worn.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX N
70E–86
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex N   Example Industrial Procedures and Policies for Working Near Overhead
Electrical Lines and Equipment
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
N.1  Introduction.  This informative annex is an example of an
industrial   procedure   for   working   near   overhead   electrical
systems.  Areas  covered  include  operations  that  could  expose
employees  or  equipment  to  contact  with  overhead  electrical
systems.
When  working  near  electrical  lines  or  equipment,  avoid
direct  or  indirect  contact.  Direct  contact  is  contact  with  any
part  of  the  body.  Indirect  contact  is  when  part  of  the  body
touches  or  is  in  dangerous  proximity  to  any  object  in  contact
with   energized   electrical   equipment.   The   following   two
assumptions should always be made:
(1)Lines are “live” (energized).
(2)Lines are operating at high voltage (over 1000 volts).
As  the  voltage  increases,  the  minimum  working  clearances
increase.  Through  arc-over,  injuries  or  fatalities  could  occur,
even  if  actual  contact  with  high-voltage  lines  or  equipment  is
not made. Potential for arc-over increases as the voltage increa‐
ses.
N.2 Overhead   Power   Line   Policy   (OPP).  This   informative
annex applies to all overhead conductors, regardless of voltage,
and requires the following:
(1)That  employees  not  place  themselves  in  close  proximity
to  overhead  power  lines.  “Close  proximity”  is  within  a
distance  of  3  m  (10  ft)  for  systems  up  to  50  kV,  and
should be increased 100 mm (4 in.) for every 10 kV above
50 kV.
(2)That  employees  be  informed  of  the  hazards  and  precau‐
tions when working near overhead lines.
(3)That  warning  decals  be  posted  on  cranes  and  similar
equipment  regarding  the  minimum  clearance  of  3  m
(10 ft).
(4)That  a  “spotter”  be  designated  when  equipment  is  work‐
ing  near  overhead  lines.  This  person’s  responsibility  is  to
observe safe working clearances around all overhead lines
and to direct the operator accordingly.
(5)That  warning  cones  be  used  as  visible  indicators  of  the
3  m  (10  ft)  safety  zone  when  working  near  overhead
power lines.
Informational  Note:  “Working  near,”  for  the  purpose  of  this
informative annex, is defined as working within a distance from
any  overhead  power  line  that  is  less  than  the  combined  height
or  length  of  the  lifting  device  plus  the  associated  load  length
and  the  required  minimum  clearance  distance  [as  stated  in
N.2(1)]. Required clearance is expressed as follows:
Required  clearance  =  lift  equipment  height  or  length  +  load
length + at least 3 m (10 ft)
(6)That  the  local  responsible  person  be  notified  at  least
24 hours before any work begins to allow time to identify
voltages  and  clearances  or  to  place  the  line  in  an  electri‐
cally safe work condition.
N.3  Policy.  All  employees  and  contractors  shall  conform  to
the  OPP.  The  first  line  of  defense  in  preventing  electrical
contact  accidents  is  to  remain  outside  the  limited  approach
boundary.  Because  most  company  and  contractor  employees
are not qualified to determine the system voltage level, a quali‐
fied  person  shall  be  called  to  establish  voltages  and  minimum
clearances and take appropriate action to make the work zone
safe.
N.4  Procedures.
N.4.1  General.  Prior to the start of all operations where poten‐
tial  contact  with  overhead  electrical  systems  is  possible,  the
person  in  charge  shall  identify  overhead  lines  or  equipment,
reference  their  location  with  respect  to  prominent  physical
features,  or  physically  mark  the  area  directly  in  front  of  the
overhead  lines  with  safety  cones,  survey  tape,  or  other  means.
Electrical  line  location  shall  be  discussed  at  a  pre-work  safety
meeting  of  all  employees  on  the  job  (through  a  job  briefing).
All company employees and contractors shall attend this meet‐
ing and require their employees to conform to electrical safety
standards.  New  or  transferred  employees  shall  be  informed  of
electrical hazards and proper procedures during orientations.
On  construction  projects,  the  contractor  shall  identify  and
reference  all  potential  electrical  hazards  and  document  such
actions  with  the  on-site  employers.  The  location  of  overhead
electrical  lines  and  equipment  shall  be  conspicuously  marked
by  the  person  in  charge.  New  employees  shall  be  informed  of
electrical hazards and of proper precautions and procedures.
Where there is potential for contact with overhead electrical
systems,  local  area  management  shall  be  called  to  decide
whether to place the line in an electrically safe work condition
or  to  otherwise  protect  the  line  against  unintentional  contact.
Where  there  is  a  suspicion  of  lines  with  low  clearance  [height
under  6  m  (20  ft)],  the  local  on-site  electrical  supervisor  shall
be notified to verify and take appropriate action.
All electrical contact incidents, including “near misses,” shall
be reported to the local area health and safety specialist.
N.4.2 Look  Up  and  Live  Flags.  In  order  to  prevent  uninten‐
tional  contact  with  all  aerial  lifts,  cranes,  boom  trucks,  service
rigs,  and  similar  equipment  shall  use  look  up  and  live  flags.
The  flags  are  visual  indicators  that  the  equipment  is  currently
being used or has been returned to its “stowed or cradled” posi‐
tion.  The  flags  shall  be  yellow  with  black  lettering  and  shall
state in bold lettering “LOOK UP AND LIVE.”
The procedure for the use of the flag follows.
(1)When the boom or lift is in its stowed or cradled position,
the flag shall be located on the load hook or boom end.
(2)Prior to operation of the boom or lift, the operator of the
equipment  shall  assess  the  work  area  to  determine  the
location of all overhead lines and communicate this infor‐
mation to all crews on site. Once completed, the operator
shall  remove  the  flag  from  the  load  hook  or  boom  and
transfer  the  flag  to  the  steering  wheel  of  the  vehicle.
Once the flag is placed on the steering wheel, the opera‐
tor can begin to operate the equipment.
(3)After successfully completing the work activity and return‐
ing  the  equipment  to  its  stowed  or  cradled  position,  the
operator shall return the flag to the load hook.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX N
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–87
(4)The  operator  of  the  equipment  is  responsible  for  the
placement of the look up and live flag.
N.4.3  High Risk Tasks.
N.4.3.1 Heavy  Mobile  Equipment.  Prior  to  the  start  of  each
workday,  a  high-visibility  marker  (orange  safety  cones  or  other
devices) shall be temporarily placed on the ground to mark the
location of overhead wires. The supervisors shall discuss electri‐
cal  safety  with  appropriate  crew  members  at  on-site  tailgate
safety talks. When working in the proximity of overhead lines, a
spotter  shall  be  positioned  in  a  conspicuous  location  to  direct
movement  and  observe  for  contact  with  the  overhead  wires.
The  spotter,  equipment  operator,  and  all  other  employees
working  on  the  job  location  shall  be  alert  for  overhead  wires
and remain at least 3 m (10 ft) from the mobile equipment.
All  mobile  equipment  shall  display  a  warning  decal  regard‐
ing  electrical  contact.  Independent  truck  drivers  delivering
materials  to  field  locations  shall  be  cautioned  about  overhead
electrical  lines  before  beginning  work,  and  a  properly  trained
on-site or contractor employee shall assist in the loading or off-
loading  operation.  Trucks  that  have  emptied  their  material
shall not leave the work location until the boom, lift, or box is
down and is safely secured.
N.4.3.2 Aerial  Lifts,  Cranes,  and  Boom  Devices.  Where  there
is  potential  for  near  operation  or  contact  with  overhead  lines
or  equipment,  work  shall  not  begin  until  a  safety  meeting  is
conducted  and  appropriate  steps  are  taken  to  identify,  mark,
and  warn  against  unintentional  contact.  The  supervisor  will
review operations daily to ensure compliance.
Where  the  operator’s  visibility  is  impaired,  a  spotter  shall
guide  the  operator.  Hand  signals  shall  be  used  and  clearly
understood  between  the  operator  and  spotter.  When  visual
contact  is  impaired,  the  spotter  and  operator  shall  be  in  radio
contact. Aerial lifts, cranes, and boom devices shall have appro‐
priate  warning  decals  and  shall  use  warning  cones  or  similar
devices  to  indicate  the  location  of  overhead  lines  and  identify
the 3 m (10 ft) minimum safe working boundary.
N.4.3.3  Tree Work.  Wires shall be treated as live and operating
at high voltage until verified as otherwise by the local area on-
site   employer.   The   local   maintenance   organization   or   an
approved electrical contractor shall remove branches touching
wires  before  work  begins.  Limbs  and  branches  shall  not  be
dropped  onto  overhead  wires.  If  limbs  or  branches  fall  across
electrical  wires,  all  work  shall  stop  immediately  and  the  local
area  maintenance  organization  is  to  be  called.  When  climbing
or working in trees, pruners shall try to position themselves so
that the trunk or limbs are between their bodies and electrical
wires.  If  possible,  pruners  shall  not  work  with  their  backs
toward electrical wires. An insulated bucket truck is the prefer‐
red method of pruning when climbing poses a greater threat of
electrical  contact.  Personal  protective  equipment  (PPE)  shall
be used while working on or near lines.
N.4.4 Underground  Electrical  Lines  and  Equipment.  Before
excavation  starts  and  where  there  exists  reasonable  possibility
of  contacting  electrical  or  utility  lines  or  equipment,  the  local
area supervision (or USA DIG organization, when appropriate)
shall  be  called  and  a  request  is  to  be  made  for  identifying/
marking the line location(s).
When USA DIG is called, their representatives will need the
following:
(1)Minimum  of  two  working  days’  notice  prior  to  start  of
work, name of county, name of city, name and number of
street or highway marker, and nearest intersection
(2)Type of work
(3)Date and time work is to begin
(4)Caller’s name, contractor/department name and address
(5)Telephone number for contact
(6)Special instructions
Utilities  that  do  not  belong  to  USA  DIG  must  be  contacted
separately.  USA  DIG  might  not  have  a  complete  list  of  utility
owners.  Utilities  that  are  discovered  shall  be  marked  before
work  begins.  Supervisors  shall  periodically  refer  their  location
to all workers, including new employees, subject to exposure.
N.4.5 Vehicles  with  Loads  in  Excess  of  4.25  m  (14  ft)  in
Height.  This  policy  requires  that  all  vehicles  with  loads  in
excess  of  4.25  m  (14  ft)  in  height  use  specific  procedures  to
maintain  safe  working  clearances  when  in  transit  below  over‐
head lines.
The specific procedures for moving loads in excess of 4.25 m
(14 ft) in height or via routes with lower clearance heights are
as follows:
(1)Prior to movement of any load in excess of 4.25 m (14 ft)
in  height,  the  local  health  and  safety  department,  along
with  the  local  person  in  charge,  shall  be  notified  of  the
equipment move.
(2)An  on-site  electrician,  electrical  construction  representa‐
tive,  or  qualified  electrical  contractor  should  check  the
intended route to the next location before relocation.
(3)The  new  site  is  to  be  checked  for  overhead  lines  and
clearances.
(4)Power lines and communication lines shall be noted, and
extreme care used when traveling beneath the lines.
(5)The company moving the load or equipment will provide
a  driver  responsible  for  measuring  each  load  and  ensur‐
ing   each   load   is   secured   and   transported   in   a   safe
manner.
(6)An  on-site  electrician,  electrical  construction  representa‐
tive, or qualified electrical contractor shall escort the first
load  to  the  new  location,  ensuring  safe  clearances,  and  a
service  company  representative  shall  be  responsible  for
subsequent loads to follow the same safe route.
If proper working clearances cannot be maintained, the job
must be shut down until a safe route can be established or the
necessary repairs or relocations have been completed to ensure
that a safe working clearance has been achieved.
All  work  requiring  movement  of  loads  in  excess  of  4.25  m
(14 ft) in height are required to begin only after a general work
permit  has  been  completed  detailing  all  pertinent  information
about the move.
N.4.6 Emergency  Response.  If  an  overhead  line  falls  or  is
contacted, the following precautions should be taken:
(1)Keep everyone at least 3 m (10 ft) away.
(2)Use  flagging  to  protect  motorists,  spectators,  and  other
individuals from fallen or low wires.
(3)Call  the  local  area  electrical  department  or  electric  util‐
ity immediately.
(4)Place barriers around the area.
(5)Do not attempt to move the wire(s).
(6)Do not touch anything that is touching the wire(s).
(7)Be alert to water or other conductors present.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX N
70E–88
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
(8)Crews  shall  have  emergency  numbers  readily  available.
These numbers shall include local area electrical depart‐
ment, utility, police/fire, and medical assistance.
(9)If  an  individual  becomes  energized,  DO  NOT  TOUCH
the  individual  or  anything  in  contact  with  the  person.
Call  for  emergency  medical  assistance  and  call  the  local
utility  immediately.  If  the  individual  is  no  longer  in
contact  with  the  energized  conductors,  CPR,  rescue
breathing,  or  first  aid  should  be  administered  immedi‐
ately, but only by a trained person. It is safe to touch the
victim once contact is broken or the source is known to
be de-energized.
(10)Wires  that  contact  vehicles  or  equipment  will  cause
arcing,   smoke,   and   possibly   fire.   Occupants   should
remain  in  the  cab  and  wait  for  the  local  area  electrical
department or utility. If it becomes necessary to exit the
vehicle,  leap  with  both  feet  as  far  away  from  the  vehicle
as  possible,  without  touching  the  equipment.  Jumping
free of the vehicle is the last resort.
(11)If  operating  the  equipment  and  an  overhead  wire  is
contacted,  stop  the  equipment  immediately  and,  if  safe
to  do  so,  jump  free  and  clear  of  the  equipment.  Main‐
tain  your  balance,  keep  your  feet  together  and  either
shuffle or bunny hop away from the vehicle another 3 m
(10  ft)  or  more.  Do  not  return  to  the  vehicle  or  allow
anyone else for any reason to return to the vehicle until
the  local  utility  has  removed  the  power  line  from  the
vehicle  and  has  confirmed  that  the  vehicle  is  no  longer
in contact with the overhead lines.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX O
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–89
Informative Annex O   Safety-Related Design Requirements
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
O.1  Introduction.  This    informative    annex    addresses    the
responsibilities   of   the   facility   owner   or   manager   or   the
employer  having  responsibility  for  facility  ownership  or  opera‐
tions  management  to  perform  a  risk  assessment  during  the
design of electrical systems and installations.
O.1.1  This  informative  annex  covers  employee  safety-related
design  concepts  for  electrical  equipment  and  installations  in
workplaces covered by the scope of this standard. This informa‐
tive annex discusses design considerations that have impact on
the application of the safety-related work practices only.
O.1.2  This  informative  annex  does  not  discuss  specific  design
requirements.  The  facility  owner  or  manager  or  the  employer
should choose design options that eliminate hazards or reduce
risk and enhance the effectiveness of safety-related work practi‐
ces.
O.2  General Design Considerations.
O.2.1  Employers,   facility   owners,   and   managers   who   have
responsibility  for  facilities  and  installations  having  electrical
energy as a potential hazard to employees and other personnel
should   ensure   that   electrical   hazard   risk   assessments   are
performed  during  the  design  of  electrical  systems  and  installa‐
tions.
O.2.2  Design  option  decisions  should  facilitate  the  ability  to
eliminate hazards or reduce risk by doing the following:
(1)Reducing the likelihood of exposure
(2)Reducing the magnitude or severity of exposure
(3)Enabling  achievement  of  an  electrically  safe  work  condi‐
tion
O.2.3 Incident   Energy   Reduction   Methods.  The   following
methods  have  proved  to  be  effective  in  reducing  incident
energy:
(1)Zone-selective  interlocking.  This  is  a  method  that  allows
two  or  more  circuit  breakers  to  communicate  with  each
other  so  that  a  short  circuit  or  ground  fault  will  be
cleared  by  the  breaker  closest  to  the  fault  with  no  inten‐
tional delay. Clearing the fault in the shortest time aids in
reducing the incident energy.
(2)Differential   relaying.   The   concept   of   this   protection
method is that current flowing into protected equipment
must equal the current out of the equipment. If these two
currents are not equal, a fault must exist within the equip‐
ment,  and  the  relaying  can  be  set  to  operate  for  a  fast
interruption. Differential relaying uses current transform‐
ers  located  on  the  line  and  load  sides  of  the  protected
equipment and fast acting relay.
(3)Energy-reducing   maintenance   switching   with   a   local
status  indicator.  An  energy-reducing  maintenance  switch
allows a worker to set a circuit breaker trip unit to operate
faster  while  the  worker  is  working  within  an  arc  flash
boundary,  as  defined  in  NFPA  70E,  and  then  to  set  the
circuit  breaker  back  to  a  normal  setting  after  the  work  is
complete.
(4)Energy-reducing  active  arc  flash  mitigation  system.  This
system  can  reduce  the  arcing  duration  by  creating  a  low
impedance   current   path,   located   within   a   controlled
compartment,  to  cause  the  arcing  fault  to  transfer  to  the
new  current  path,  while  the  upstream  breaker  clears  the
circuit.  The  system  works  without  compromising  existing
selective   coordination   in   the   electrical   distribution
system.
(5)Energy-reducing  line  side  isolation.  This  is  equipment
that  encloses  the  line  side  conductors  and  circuit  parts
and  has  been  listed  to  provide  both  shock  and  arc  flash
protection  from  events  on  the  line  side  of  a  circuit
breaker or switch.
(6)Arc  flash  relay.  An  arc  flash  relay  typically  uses  light
sensors to detect the light produced by an arc flash event.
Once  a  certain  level  of  light  is  detected,  the  relay  will
issue a trip signal to an upstream overcurrent device.
(7)High-resistance  grounding.  A  great  majority  of  electrical
faults  are  of  the  phase-to-ground  type.  High-resistance
grounding will insert an impedance in the ground return
path   and   will   typically   limit   the   fault   current   to
10  amperes  and  below  (at  5  kV  nominal  or  below),  leav‐
ing  insufficient  fault  energy  and  thereby  helping  reduce
the arc flash hazard level. High-resistance grounding will
not  affect  arc  flash  energy  for  line-to-line  or  line-to-line-
to-line arcs.
(8)Current-limiting devices. Current-limiting protective devi‐
ces reduce incident energy by clearing the fault faster and
by  reducing  the  current  seen  at  the  arc  source.  The
energy reduction becomes effective for current above the
current-limiting  threshold  of  the  current-limiting  fuse  or
current limiting circuit breaker.
(9)Shunt-trip.  Adding  a  shunt-trip  that  is  signaled  to  open
from  an  open-fuse  relay  to  switches  800  amperes  and
greater  reduces  incident  energy  by  opening  the  switch
immediately when the first fuse opens. The reduced clear‐
ing  time  reduces  incident  energy.  This  is  especially  help‐
ful  for  arcing  currents  that  are  not  within  the  current-
limiting threshold of the three current-limiting fuses.
ΔO.2.4 Additional   Safety-by-Design   Methods.  The   following
methods have proven to be effective in reducing risk associated
with an arc flash or shock hazard:
(1)Installing finger-safe components, covers, and insulating
barriers reduces exposure to energized parts.
(2)Installing  disconnects  within  sight  of  each  motor  or
driven  machine  increases  the  likelihood  that  the  equip‐
ment will be put into an electrically safe work condition
before work has begun.
(3)Installing current limiting cable limiters can help reduce
incident energy. Additionally, cable limiters can be used
to  provide  short-circuit  protection  (and  therefore  inci‐
dent  energy  reduction)  for  feeder  tap  conductors  that
are  protected  at  up  to  10  times  their  ampacity,  a  situa‐
tion where the tap conductor can easily vaporize.
(4)Installing  inspection  windows  for  noncontact  inspection
reduces the need to open doors or remove covers.
(5)Installing  a  single  service  fused  disconnect  switch  or
circuit  breaker  provides  protection  for  buses  that  would
be unprotected if six disconnect switches are used.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX O
70E–90
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
(6)Installing  metering  to  provide  remote  monitoring  of
voltage and current levels reduces exposure to electrical
hazards  by  placing  the  worker  farther  away  from  the
hazard.
(7)Installing  Type  2  “no  damage”  current  limiting  protec‐
tion to motor controllers reduces incident energy when‐
ever  the  arcing  current  is  within  the  current  limiting
threshold of the current-limiting fuse or current-limiting
circuit breaker.
(8)Installing  adjustable  instantaneous  trip  protective  devi‐
ces  and  lowering  the  trip  settings  can  reduce  the  inci‐
dent energy.
(9)Installing arc-resistant equipment, designed to divert hot
gases,  plasma,  and  other  products  of  an  arc-flash  out  of
the  enclosure  so  that  a  worker  is  not  exposed  when
standing  in  front  of  the  equipment  with  all  doors  and
covers  closed  and  latched,  reduces  the  risk  of  arc  flash
exposure.
(10)Installing   provisions   that   provide   remote   racking   of
equipment, such as remote-controlled motorized remote
racking  of  a  circuit  breaker  or  an  MCC  bucket,  allows
the worker to be located outside the arc-flash boundary.
An  extended  length  hand-operated  racking  tool  also
adds  distance  between  the  worker  and  the  equipment,
reducing the worker's exposure.
(11)Installing  provisions  that  provide  remote  opening  and
closing  of  circuit  breakers  and  switches  could  permit
workers  to  operate  the  equipment  from  a  safe  distance,
outside the arc flash boundary.
(12)Class  C,  D,  and  E  special  purpose  ground  fault  circuit
interrupters   exist   for   circuits   operating   at   voltages
outside  the  range  for  Class  A  GFCI  protection.  See
UL 943C for additional information.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX P
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–91
Informative Annex P   Aligning Implementation of This Standard with Occupational Health and
Safety Management Standards
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
ΔP.1  General.  Injuries  from  electrical  energy  are  a  significant
cause  of  occupational  fatalities  in  the  workplace  in  the  United
States.  This  standard  specifies  requirements  unique  to  the
hazards  of  electrical  energy.  By  itself,  however,  this  standard
does  not  constitute  a  comprehensive  and  effective  electrical
safety  program.  The  most  effective  application  of  the  require‐
ments of this standard can be achieved within the framework of
a  recognized  health  and  safety  management  system.  ANSI/
AIHA  Z10,  American  National  Standard  for  Occupational  Health
and  Safety  Management  Systems,  and  ISO  45001,  Occupational
Health  and  Safety  Management  Systems  —  Requirements  with  Guid‐
ance for Use, provides comprehensive guidance on the elements
of  an  effective  health  and  safety  management  system  and  are
recognized standards. ANSI/AIHA Z10 and IS0 45001 are simi‐
lar   to   other   internationally   recognized   standards,   such   as
ANSI/ISO  14001,  Environmental  Management  Systems  —  Require‐
ments  with  Guidance  for  Use.  Some  companies  and  other  organi‐
zations have proprietary health and safety management systems
that are aligned with the key elements of ANSI/AIHA Z10 and
ISO 45001.
The most effective design and implementation of an electri‐
cal  safety  program  can  be  achieved  through  a  joint  effort
involving  electrical  subject  matter  experts  and  safety  professio‐
nals knowledgeable about safety management systems.
Such   collaboration   can   help   ensure   that   proven   safety
management principles and practices applicable to any hazard
in  the  workplace  are  appropriately  incorporated  into  the  elec‐
trical safety program.
This informative annex provides guidance on implementing
this  standard  within  the  framework  of  ANSI/AIHA  Z10  and
ISO 45001 and other recognized or proprietary comprehensive
occupational health and safety management system standards.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX Q
70E–92
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Informative Annex Q   Human Performance and Workplace Electrical Safety
This informative annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA
document but is included for informational purposes only.
Q.1  Introduction.  This   annex   introduces   the   concept   of
human  performance  and  how  this  concept  can  be  applied  to
workplace electrical safety.
Human  performance  is  an  aspect  of  risk  management  that
addresses  organizational,  leader,  and  individual  performance
as factors that either lead to or prevent errors and their events.
The objective of human performance is to identify and address
human   error   and   its   negative   consequences   on   people,
programs,  processes,  the  work  environment,  an  organization,
or equipment.
Studies  by  high-risk  industries  indicate  that  human  error  is
often  a  root  cause  of  incidents.  The  premise  of  this  annex  is
that human error is similarly a frequent root cause of electrical
incidents. In occupational health and safety terms, an incident
is  an  occurrence  arising  in  the  course  of  work  that  resulted  in
or  could  have  resulted  in  an  injury,  illness,  damage  to  health,
or a fatality (see ANSI/AIHA Z10-2012, Definition of Incident).
The hierarchy of risk control methods identified in this and
other standards is:
(1)Eliminating the hazard
(2)Substituting other materials, processes, or equipment
(3)Using engineering controls
(4)Establishing  systems  that  increase  awareness  of  potential
hazards
(5)Setting  administrative  controls,  e.g.,  training  and  proce‐
dures, instructions, and scheduling
(6)Using  PPE,  including  measures  to  ensure  its  appropriate
selection, use, and maintenance
The  purpose  of  these  controls  is  to  either  reduce  the  likeli‐
hood  of  an  incident  occurring  or  to  prevent  or  mitigate  the
severity  of  consequence  if  an  incident  occurs.  No  control  is
infallible.  All  of  the  controls  are  subject  to  errors  in  human
performance,  whether  at  the  design,  implementation,  or  use
phase.
Human performance addresses managing human error as a
unique  control  that  is  complementary  to  the  hierarchy  of  risk
control methods.
Q.2 Principles  of  Human  Performance.  The  following  are
basic principles of human performance:
(1)People   are   fallible,   and   even   the   best   people   make
mistakes.
(2)Error-likely   situations   and   conditions   are   predictable,
manageable, and preventable.
(3)Individual  performance  is  influenced  by  organizational
processes and values.
(4)People   achieve   high   levels   of   performance   largely
because    of    the    encouragement    and    reinforcement
received from leaders, peers, and subordinates.
(5)Incidents  can  be  avoided  through  an  understanding  of
the reasons mistakes occur and application of the lessons
learned from past incidents.
Q.3 Information     Processing     and     Attention.  The     brain
processes information in a series of interactive stages:
(1)Attention — where and to what we intentionally or unin‐
tentionally direct our concentration.
(2)Sensing  —  sensory  inputs  (hearing,  seeing,  touching,
smelling, etc.) receive and transfer information.
(3)Encoding,  storage,  thinking  —  incoming  information  is
encoded and stored for later use in decision making (i.e.,
what  to  do  with  information).  This  stage  of  information
processing   involves   interaction   between   the   working
memory and long-term memory (capabilities, knowledge,
past experiences, opinions, and perspectives).
(4)Retrieval,  acting  —  taking  physical  human  action  based
on the synthesis of attention, sensation, encoded informa‐
tion, thinking, and decision-making. In a workplace envi‐
ronment  this  would  include  changing  the  state  of  a
component  using  controls,  tools,  and  computers,  includ‐
ing verbal statements to inform or direct others.
According  to  Rasmussen’s  model  used  to  classify  human
error,   workers   operate   in   one   or   more   of   three   human
performance  modes:  rule-based  mode,  skill-based  mode,  and
knowledge-based mode.
Note: See Rasmussen, J. (1983); Skills, rules, and knowledge;
signals,  signs,  and  symbols,  and  other  distinctions  in  human
performance  models.  IEEE  Transactions  on  Systems,  Man,  and
Cybernetics, (3), 257-266.
Reason’s   Human   Performance   Generic   Error   Modeling
System  is  an  extension  of  Rasmussen’s  model.  An  individual
consciously  or  subconsciously  selects  a  human  performance
mode  based  on  his  or  her  perception  of  the  situation.  This
perception  is  usually  a  function  of  the  individual’s  familiarity
with  a  specific  task  and  the  level  of  attention  (information
processing) applied to accomplish the activity.
Note:    See    Reason,    J.    Human    Error.    Cambridge,    UK:
Cambridge University Press, 1990.
Most  cognitive  psychologists  agree  that  humans  have  a  limi‐
ted  pool  of  attentional  resources  available  to  divide  up  among
tasks.  This  pool  of  shared  attentional  resources  enables  the
mind  to  process  information  while  performing  one  or  some‐
times   multiple   tasks.   Some   tasks   require   more   attentional
resources  than  others.  The  amount  of  attentional  resource
required  to  perform  a  task  satisfactorily  defines  the  mental
workload for an individual and is inversely proportional to the
individual’s familiarity with the task. An increase in knowledge,
skill,  and  experience  with  a  task  decreases  the  level  of  atten‐
tional  resources  required  to  perform  that  task  and  therefore
decreases  the  level  of  attentional  resource  allocated  to  that
task.
Critical  points  in  activities  when  risk  is  higher  (increased
likelihood  of  harm  or  increased  severity  of  harm,  or  both)
require an increased allocation of attentional resources. Alloca‐
tion at these critical points can be improved by training, proce‐
dures, equipment design, and teamwork.
Each   human   performance   mode   has   associated   errors.
Awareness  of  which  human  performance  mode  the  individual
might  be  in  helps  identify  the  kind  of  errors  that  could  be
made  and  which  error  prevention  techniques  would  be  the
most effective.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX Q
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–93
Q.4  Human Performance Modes and Associated Errors.
Q.4.1  Rule-Based Human Performance Mode.
Q.4.1.1  General.  An  individual  operates  in  rule-based  human
performance mode when the work situation is likely to be one
that  he  or  she  has  encountered  before  or  has  been  trained  to
deal  with,  or  which  is  covered  by  a  procedure.  It  is  called  the
rule-based  mode  because  the  individual  applies  memorized  or
written  rules.  These  rules  might  have  been  learned  as  a  result
of interaction at the workplace, through formal training, or by
working with experienced workers.
The level of required attentional resources when in the rule-
based mode fits between that of the knowledge- and skill-based
modes. The time devoted to processing the information (reac‐
tion  time)  to  select  an  appropriate  response  to  the  work  situa‐
tion is in the order of seconds.
The  rule-based  level  follows  an  IF  (symptom  X),  THEN
(situation  Y)  logic.  The  individual  operates  by  matching  the
signs and symptoms of the situation to some stored knowledge
structure, and will usually react in a predicable manner.
In human performance theory, rule-based is the most desira‐
ble  performance  mode.  The  individual  can  use  conscious
thinking  to  challenge  whether  or  not  the  proposed  solution  is
appropriate.  This  can  result  in  additional  error  prevention
being integrated into the solution.
Not  all  activities  guided  by  a  procedure  are  necessarily
executed  in  rule-based  mode.  An  experienced  worker  might
unconsciously default to the skill-based mode when executing a
procedure that is normally done in the rule-based mode.
Q.4.1.2 Rule-Based  Human  Performance  Mode  Errors.  Since
the  rule-based  human  performance  mode  requires  interpreta‐
tion  using  an  "if-then"  logic,  misinterpretation  is  the  prevalent
type  error  mode.  Errors  involve  deviating  from  an  approved
procedure, applying the wrong response to a work situation, or
applying the correct procedure to the wrong situation.
Q.4.2  Knowledge-Based Human Performance Mode.
Q.4.2.1  General.  A    worker    operates    in    knowledge-based
human  performance  mode  when  there  is  uncertainty  about
what  to  do;  no  skill  or  rule  is  readily  identifiable.  The  individ‐
ual  relies  on  their  understanding  and  knowledge  of  the  situa‐
tion  and  related  scientific  principles  and  fundamental  theory
to develop an appropriate response. Uncertainty creates a need
for  information.  To  gather  information  more  effectively,  the
individual’s   attentional   resources   become   more   focused.
Thinking  takes  more  effort  and  energy,  and  the  time  devoted
to processing the information to select an appropriate response
to the situation can be in the order of minutes to hours.
Q.4.2.2 Knowledge-Based  Human  Performance  Mode  Errors.
The prevalent error when operating in knowledge-based mode
is  that  decisions  are  often  based  on  an  inaccurate  mental
picture   of   the   work   situation.   Knowledge-based   activities
require  decision  making  based  on  diagnosis  and  problem-
solving.  Humans  do  not  usually  perform  optimally  in  high-
stress,  unfamiliar  situations  where  they  are  required  to  “think
on their feet” in the absence of rules, routines, and procedures
to  handle  the  situation.  The  tendency  is  to  use  only  informa‐
tion  that  is  readily  available  to  evaluate  the  situation  and  to
become  enmeshed  in  one  aspect  of  the  problem  to  the  exclu‐
sion  of  all  other  considerations.  Decision-making  is  erroneous
if  problem-solving  is  based  on  incomplete  or  inaccurate  infor‐
mation.
Q.4.3  Skill-Based Human Performance Mode.
Q.4.3.1  General.  A person is in skill-based mode when execut‐
ing a task that involves practiced actions in a very familiar and
common situation. Human performance is governed by mental
instructions  developed  by  either  practice  or  experience  and  is
less  dependent  on  external  conditions.  The  time  devoted  to
processing the information is in the order of milliseconds. Writ‐
ing  one’s  signature  is  an  example  of  skill-based  performance
mode. A familiar workplace procedure is typically performed in
skill-based  performance  mode,  such  as  the  operation  of  a  low-
voltage molded case circuit breaker.
Q.4.3.2 Skill-Based  Human  Performance  Mode  Errors.  The
relatively  low  demand  on  attentional  resources  required  when
an  individual  is  in  skill-based  human  performance  mode  can
create the following errors:
(1)Inattention:  Skill-based  performance  mode  errors  are
primarily  execution  errors  involving  omissions  triggered
by  human  variability,  or  not  recognizing  changes  in  task
requirements or work conditions related to the task.
(2)Perceived  reduction  in  risk:  As  familiarity  with  a  task
increases,  the  individual’s  perception  of  the  associated
risk  is  less  likely  to  match  actual  risk.  A  perceived  reduc‐
tion   in   risk   can   create   “inattentional   blindness”   and
insensitivity to the presence of hazards.
Q.5 Error  Precursors.  Error  precursors  are  situations  when
the  demands  of  the  task  and  the  environment  it  is  performed
in exceed the capabilities of the individual(s) or the limitations
of  human  nature.  Error  precursors  can  also  be  unfavorable
conditions  that  increase  the  probability  for  error  during  a
specific  action.  Error  precursors  can  be  grouped  into  four
broad categories.
(1)Task demands — when specific mental, physical, or team
requirements to perform a task either exceed the capabil‐
ities   or   challenge   the   limitations   of   the   individual
assigned to the task.
(2)Work  environment  —  when  general  influences  of  the
workplace,  organizational,  and  cultural  conditions  affect
individual performance.
(3)Individual  capabilities  —  when  an  individual’s  unique
mental,  physical,  and  emotional  characteristics  do  not
match the demands of the specific task.
(4)Human  nature  —  when  traits,  dispositions,  and  limita‐
tions  common  to  all  persons  incline  an  individual  to  err
under unfavorable conditions.
Table  Q.5  provides  a  list  of  specific  examples  for  each  cate‐
gory.
When  error  precursors  are  identified  and  addressed  then
the likelihood of human error is reduced.
Q.6  Human Performance Tools.
Q.6.1  Application.  Human performance tools reduce the like‐
lihood  of  error  when  applied  to  error  precursors.  Consistent
use  of  human  performance  tools  by  an  organization  will  facili‐
tate the incorporation of best practice work. The following are
some  human  performance  tools.  See  Table  Q.5  for  a  list  of
these tools.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX Q
70E–94
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
Q.6.2 Job  Planning  and  Pre-Job  Briefing  Tool  [see  110.5(I)].
Creating  a  job  plan  and  conducting  pre-job  briefing  assists
personnel  to  focus  on  the  performance  of  the  tasks  and  to
understand their roles in the execution of the tasks.
The  following  is  a  graded  approach  that  can  be  used  when
job  planning  to  identify  error  precursors  and  select  an  appro‐
priate   human   performance   tool,   or   combination   of   tools,
proportionate to the potential consequences of error:
(1)Summarize the critical steps of the job that, if performed
improperly,  will  cause  irreversible  harm  to  persons  or
equipment,  or  will  significantly  impact  operation  of  a
process.
(2)Anticipate error precursors for each critical step.
(3)Foresee probable and worst-case consequences if an error
occurs during each critical step.
(4)Evaluate controls or contingencies at each critical step to
prevent,  catch,  and  recover  from  errors  and  to  reduce
their consequences.
(5)Review  previous  experience  and  lessons  learned  relevant
to the specific task and critical steps.
If  one  or  more  human  performance  tools  are  identified,
then  each  tool  should  be  discussed  regarding  its  advantages,
disadvantages, and when and how it should be applied.
Q.6.3 Job  Site  Review  Tool.  Incorporating  a  job  site  review
into  job  planning  facilitates  the  identification  of  hazards  and
potential   barriers   and   delays.   A   job   site   review   can   be
performed any time prior or during work.
Q.6.4 Post-Job  Review  Tool.  A  post-job  review  is  a  positive
opportunity  to  capture  feedback  and  lessons  learned  from  the
job that can be applied to future jobs. The use of or lack of use
of  human  performance  tools  should  be  incorporated  into  the
review.
The  pre-job  briefing  and  the  post-job  review  are  effective
communication tools.
Table Q.5  Error Precursor Identification and Human Performance Tool Selection (see Q.5 and Q.6.1)
Error Precursors
Optimal
Tool(s)Human Performance Tools
Task Demands1 Pre-job briefing
Time pressure (in a hurry)Identify hazards, assess risk and select and implement risk 
controls from a hierarchy of methodsHigh workload (memory requirements)
Simultaneous or multiple tasks
2 Job site review
Repetitive actions or monotonyIncreased situational awareness
Critical steps or irreversible acts
3 Post-job review
Interpretation requirementsIdentify ways to improve and best practices
Unclear goals, roles, or responsibilitiesPeer check
Lack of or unclear standards
4 Procedure use and adherence
Work Environment
Step-by-step procedure read, outcome understood
Distractions/interruptionsCircle the task to be performed, check off each task as it is 
completedChanges/departures from routine
Confusing displays or controls
5 Self-check with verbalization
Workarounds/out of service instrumentationStop, Think, Act, Review (STAR)
Obscure electrical supplies or configurationsVerbalize intent before, during, and after each task
Unexpected equipment conditions
6 Three-way communication
Lack of alternative indicationDirectives are repeated by receiver back to sender; receiver 
is acknowledged by senderPersonality conflicts
Individual Capabilities
Use of the phonetic alphabet for clarity
Unfamiliar with, or first time performing task
7 Stop when unsure
Lack of knowledge (faulty mental model)Stop and obtain further direction when unable to follow a 
procedure or process step or if something unexpected 
occurs
New technique not used before
Imprecise communication habits
Lack of proficiency or experienceMaintain a questioning attitude
Indistinct problem-solving skills
8 Flagging and blocking
Unsafe attitudes for critical taskIdentify (flag) equipment and controls that will be operated
Inappropriate valuesPrevent access (block) equipment and controls that should 
not be operated
Human Nature
Stress (limits attention)
Habit patterns
Assumptions
Complacency/overconfidence
Mind-set
Inaccurate risk perception
Mental shortcuts (biases) or limited short-term memory
Notes:
This table may be utilized when identifying workplace hazards. Identify the error precursors in the left-hand column. Select the optimal human
performance tool or combination of tools from the right-hand column. List the selected tool(s) in the centre column beside the associated error.
This table does not include all possible human performance tools; however, all tools listed can be applied to each error precursor.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX Q
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–95
Q.6.5 Procedure Use and Adherence Tool.  Adhering to a writ‐
ten step-by-step sequential procedure is a human performance
tool.  The  worker  should  proactively  read  and  understand  the
purpose,  scope,  and  intent  of  all  actions  as  written  and  in  the
sequence specified.
An accurate and current account of progress should be kept
by marking each step in the procedure as it is completed. This
ensures that if the procedure is interrupted before all the steps
are completed, the job site or activity can be left in a safe state
and the procedure can be resumed at the point it was interrup‐
ted.
If  the  procedure  cannot  be  used  as  written,  or  if  the  expec‐
ted  result  cannot  be  accurately  predicted,  then  the  activity
should be stopped and the issues resolved before continuing.
An  example  of  adhering  to  a  written  step-by-step  sequential
procedure  is  a  switching  sequence,  wherein  the  sequential
order of operation of electrical distribution equipment is iden‐
tified  and  documented  for  the  purposes  of  de-energizing  and
re-energizing.
Q.6.6 Self-Check  with  Verbalization  Tool.  The  self-check  with
verbalization tool is also known by the acronym STAR — Stop,
Think, Act, and Review. Before, during, and after performing a
task  that  cannot  be  reversed,  the  worker  should  stop,  think,
and openly verbalize their actions. Verbalizing permits the indi‐
vidual’s brain to slow down to their body speed. It has the effect
of  keeping  the  individual  focused,  thus  enabling  them  to  act
and then review their actions.
Example:  A  worker  has  one  more  routine  task  to  complete
before  the  end  of  shift  —  to  approach  a  group  of  motor
control  panels  and  close  a  circuit  breaker  in  one  of  those
panels. The error precursors are task demands (in a hurry) and
human  nature  (complacency).  If  the  worker  verbalizes  each
step in the task and the expected outcome of each step, he or
she  is  less  likely  to  operate  the  wrong  circuit  breaker  and  will
be  prepared  in  the  event  that  the  outcome  of  an  action  does
not match the expectation. For example, the worker self checks
and verbalizes:
(1)I am at Panel 12 Bravo (12B).
(2)I am about to close Circuit Breaker 4 Bravo (4B).
(3)The pump motor heater indicator light will engage bright
red on Panel 10 Bravo (10B).
(4)The pump motor should not start.
(5)If the pump motor starts then I will open Circuit Breaker
4 Bravo.
(6)I am now closing Circuit Breaker 4 Bravo.
Q.6.7 Three-Way      Communication      Tool.  The      three-way
communication  tool  facilitates  a  mutual  understanding  of  the
message  between  the  sender  and  receiver.  After  a  directive  or
statement  is  made  by  the  sender,  it  is  repeated  by  the  receiver
to confirm the accuracy of the message.
When the message includes the use of letters, then whenever
possible   the   letters   should   be   communicated   using   the
phonetic alphabet.
Example:  A  sender  issues  a  directive  over  a  radio  communi‐
cation  device:  “Close  circuit  breaker  4  Bravo.”  The  receiver
repeats  the  message:  “I  understand,  close  circuit  breaker  4
Bravo.”  The  sender  validates  that  the  proper  response  was
understood: “That is correct” or “Affirmative.”
Q.6.8 Stop  When  Unsure  Tool.  When  a  worker  is  unable  to
follow  a  procedure  or  process  step,  if  something  unexpected
occurs or if the worker has a “gut feeling” that something is not
right,  then  the  worker  should  stop  and  obtain  further  direc‐
tion.  The  “stop  when  unsure”  tool  requires  that  the  worker
maintain a questioning attitude at all times.
Phrases  such  as  “I  think”  or  “I’m  pretty  sure,”  whether
verbalized  or  not,  indicate  that  the  worker  is  in  knowledge-
based  mode  and  needs  to  transition  to  rule-based  mode.  This
transition should be communicated to co-workers.
Q.6.9 Flagging and Blocking Tools [see 130.7(E)].  Flagging is a
method  to  ensure  the  correct  component  is  manipulated  or
worked on at the required time under the required conditions.
A flag could be a marker, label, or device.
It should be used when an error-likely situation or condition
is present, such as one of the following:
(1)Similar or “look-alike” equipment
(2)Work on multiple components
(3)Frequent operations performed in a short period of time
(4)Interruption of process critical equipment
Blocking  is  a  method  of  physically  preventing  access  to  an
area or equipment controls.
Hinged  covers  on  control  buttons  or  switches,  barricades,
fences or other physical barriers, whether temporary or perma‐
nent, are examples of blocking tools.
Blocking can be used in conjunction with flagging.
Q.7  Human Performance Warning Flags.
Q.7.1  General.  There  are  common  process,  organizational,
supervisory,  and  worker  performance  weaknesses  that  serve  as
human performance warning flags. These warning flags should
be identified by the organization and action should be taken to
address the root cause.
Q.7.2 Program   or   Process.  The   following   are   program   or
process human performance warning flags:
(1)Risk management processes are over-relied on, instead of
personal ownership and accountability for managing risk.
(2)Risk  management  processes  are  inefficient  or  cumber‐
some (“more” is often not better).
Q.7.3 Organizational  Performance.  The  following  are  organi‐
zational human performance warning flags:
(1)Personnel  in  the  organization  tend  to  engage  in  consen‐
sus  or  group  thinking,  without  encouraging  counterview
points.
(2)Personnel   overly   defer   to   managers   and   perceived
experts.
(3)Activities with high risk are not assigned clear owners.
(4)Past  success  without  adverse  outcomes  becomes  the  basis
for continuing current practices.
(5)The   organization   assumes   that   risk   management   is
healthy  because  a  program  or  process  was  established
(i.e., complacency exists).
Q.7.4 Supervisory  Performance.  The  following  are  supervi‐
sory human performance warning flags:
(1)Delegation  is  lacking,  with  a  few  individuals  relied  on  to
make major decisions.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX Q
70E–96
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
(2)Supervision  is  physically  or  mentally  separated  from  the
job  site  and  is  insufficiently  aware  of  current  conditions
and attitudes.
(3)Personnel  in  the  organization  do  not  understand  how
risk is perceived and managed at the worker level.
(4)Past  success  without  adverse  outcomes  becomes  the  basis
for continuing current practices.
(5)Performance  indicators  are  used  to  justify  existing  risk
management strategies.
Q.7.5 Worker Performance.  The following are worker human
performance warning flags:
(1)Individuals  or  groups  exhibit  self-imposed  production
pressure.
(2)Work activities are considered routine.
(3)Individuals  are  quick  to  make  risky  judgments  without
taking the time to fully understand the situation.
(4)Past  success  without  adverse  outcomes  becomes  the  basis
for continuing current practices.
(5)Personnel  take  pride  in  their  ability  to  work  through  or
with levels of risk that could have been mitigated or elimi‐
nated.
(6)Risk  is  not  communicated  effectively  up  the  company.
Individuals  assume  that  the  next  level  of  supervision
knows  or  understands  the  risk  involved  or  that  there  are
insufficient resources to manage the risk.
(7)Problem reporting is not transparent. Individuals are not
willing to report high-risk conditions.
Q.8  Workplace Culture.
Q.8.1  General.  The reduction or elimination of electrical inci‐
dents requires that all members at the workplace cultivate and
consistently  exhibit  a  culture  that  supports  the  use  of  human
performance  tools  and  principles.  Workers,  supervisors,  and
managers  must  all  work  together  to  implement  strong  human
performance practices.
Q.8.2  Workers.  The  safe  performance  of  activities  by  workers
is  a  product  of  mental  processes  influenced  by  factors  related
to  the  work  environment,  the  task  demands,  and  the  capabili‐
ties  of  the  worker.  All  need  to  take  responsibility  for  their
actions and strive to improve themselves, the task at hand, and
the  work  environment.  Five  general  practices  that  should  be
consistently demonstrated by workers include the following:
(1)Communication to support a consistent understanding
(2)Anticipation of error-likely situations and conditions
(3)Desire to improve personal capabilities
(4)Reports on all incidents (including “near-miss” incidents)
(5)A  commitment  to  utilize  human  performance  tools  and
principles
Q.8.3 Supervisors    and    Managers.  Through    their    actions,
supervisors  focus  worker  and  team  efforts  in  order  to  accom‐
plish  a  task.  To  be  effective,  supervisors  must  understand  what
influences  worker  performance.  Supervisors  promote  positive
outcomes   into   the   workplace   environment   to   encourage
desired  performance  and  results.  Supervisors  must  demon‐
strate a passion for identifying and preventing human perform‐
ance  errors.  They  influence  both  individual  and  company
performance in order to achieve high levels of workplace elec‐
trical  safety.  Five  general  practices  that  should  be  consistently
demonstrated by supervisors include the following:
(1)Promote open communication
(2)Encourage  teamwork  to  eliminate  error-likely  situations
and conditions
(3)Seek out and eliminate broader company weaknesses that
may create opportunity for error
(4)Reinforce desired workplace culture
(5)Recognize  the  value  in  preventing  errors,  reporting  of
near-miss   incidents,   and   the   utilization   of   human
performance tools and principles
Q.8.4 The Organization.  It is important that an organization’s
procedures,  processes,  and  values  recognize  and  accept  that
people  make  mistakes.  The  policies  and  goals  of  an  organiza‐
tion   influence   worker   and   supervisor   performance.   Five
general  practices  that  should  be  consistently  demonstrated  by
an organization include the following:
(1)Promote open communication
(2)Foster  a  culture  that  values  error  prevention  and  the  use
of human performance tools
(3)Identify  and  prevent  the  formation  of  error-likely  situa‐
tions and conditions
(4)Support  continuous  improvement  and  learning  across
the entire organization
(5)Establish   a   blame-free   culture   that   supports   incident
reporting  and  proactively  identifies  and  reacts  appropri‐
ately to risk
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–97
N
Informative Annex R   Working with Capacitors
NR.1  Introduction.  Capacitors have the ability to store electrical
energy  after  the  source  power  has  been  disconnected.  While
many systems with capacitors are built with bleed resistors that
automatically  discharge  the  stored  energy  within  a  set  time,
these  systems  can  sometimes  fail,  leaving  a  thermal,  shock,  arc
flash,  or  arc  blast  hazard.  Some  capacitor  systems  might  not
have  built-in  bleed  resistors.  This  informative  annex  provides
detailed guidance on how to properly assess the risk in working
with capacitors and implement suitable controls.
NR.2 Qualification and Training.
NR.2.1 Qualifications.  Employees who perform work on electri‐
cal  equipment  with  capacitors  that  exceed  the  energy  thresh‐
olds   in   360.3   should   be   qualified   persons   as   required   in
Chapter  1  and  should  be  trained  in,  and  familiar  with,  the
specific hazards and controls required for safe work.
NR.2.2 Unqualified   Persons. Unqualified   persons   should   be
trained in, and familiar with, any electrical safety-related practi‐
ces necessary for their safety.
NR.3  Shock Hazard.
NR.3.1  General.  The  capacitor  shock  hazard  to  a  person  is  an
impulse shock with an exponential decay curve. The severity of
the shock is related to the amount of energy (joules) delivered
and  the  time  in  which  the  energy  is  delivered.  Injuries  from
capacitor shock include severe reflex action, internal and exter‐
nal  burns,  and  heart  fibrillation.  Reflex  injury  can  occur  at
energy levels as low as 0.25 joules when the capacitor voltage is
over the skin breakdown threshold (about 400 volts), resulting
in  a  very  rapid  delivery  of  the  energy.  Reflex  action  can  result
in  injuries  from  falling,  involuntarily  coming  in  contact  with
other  hazards,  tearing  muscles,  tendons,  and  ligaments,  or
dislocation  of  joints.  Internal  burn  injuries  to  nervous  system
and  other  tissues  can  occur  at  energies  as  low  as  10s  of  joules.
Heart   fibrillation   can   happen   when   the   voltage   exceeds
100  volts  and  the  stored  energy  delivered  exceeds  10  joules
under  certain  circumstances.  However,  even  without  fibrilla‐
tion,  a  high-voltage,  high-energy  shock  can  cause  serious  inju‐
ries, either directly or through reflex action, down to as low as
0.25  joules.  Instances  of  temporary  paralysis,  loss  of  conscious‐
ness,  hearing  damage,  temporary  loss  of  eyesight,  burns,  and
dislocated joints have been reported. [See Figure R.3.1(a) for a
capacitive  shock  circuit  and  Figure  R.3.1(b)  for  a  capacitive
discharge curve.]
NR.3.2 Duration  of  Discharge.  The  duration  of  a  capacitive
discharge  shock  is  independent  of  voltage  and  is  generally
assumed  to  be  three  times  the  time  constant  of  the  shock
circuit.  After  three  time  constants,  the  voltage  is  reduced  by
95 percent, and the energy has been reduced by 99.25 percent.
The time constant, τ, is equal to body shock pathway resistance
times capacitance, as follows:
NR.3.3 Current  Delivered.  The  current  delivered  by  the  shock
is independent of capacitance and is proportional to the initial
peak voltage and inversely proportional to shock pathway resist‐
 
[R.3.2]N
ance. Assuming that all of the stored energy is delivered in 3τ,
the rms equivalent current can be expressed as follows:
I
V
R
rms
p
=
6
where:
I
rms
=
rms current
V
p
=
peak voltage
R
=pathway resistance
NR.3.4 Shock  Pathway.  The  shock  pathway  resistance  depends
on  skin  resistance,  entry  and  exit  locations,  and  internal  body
resistance. The severity of a capacitor discharge shock depends
on the time of delivery (quickly or slowly) and the energy deliv‐
ered.  A  capacitor  disconnected  from  a  live  voltage  source  has
only  a  finite  amount  of  energy  and  can  deliver  that  energy
either  quickly  or  slowly,  depending  on  specific  shock  pathway
resistance.  As  shock  pathway  resistance  increases,  the  current
lowers  but  the  time  to  discharge  also  takes  longer,  and  vice
versa.  Below  400  volts,  skin  breakdown  is  less  likely  and  skin
resistance  (over  10,000  ohms  for  intact  skin)  will  significantly
reduce the shock current and extend discharge time. For punc‐
 
[R.3.3]N
V
C
R
body
where:
V = voltage
C = capacitance
R = resistance
FIGURE  R.3.1(a)     Capacitor Shock Circuit.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
70E–98
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
tured, broken, or very wet skin, the contact resistance is 0 ohms
to 100 ohms.
NR.3.5 Response  to  Shock  Levels.  For  a  given  stored  energy,
there is a difference in response to whether it is a high-voltage,
low-capacitance   shock,   or   a   low-voltage,   high-capacitance
shock. At high voltage and low capacitance, a hazardous shock
will  fully  discharge  nearly  instantaneously  (in  microseconds)
and could miss the vulnerable part of the heart cycle. However,
the  full  energy  is  delivered  to  the  person  and  there  could  be
nerve  or  other  tissue  damage.  At  low  voltage  and  high  capaci‐
tance,  the  total  discharge  time  can  extend  several  seconds
(multiple  heart  beats),  behaving  more  like  a  dc  shock.  Both
scenarios  remain  highly  hazardous  as  fibrillation  could  still
occur.
Informational  Note:  For  more  information  on  impulse  shock
hazards,  see  IEC  TS  60479-2,  Effects  of  Current  on  Humans  and
Livestock, Part 2, Special Aspects.
NR.3.6 Reflex  Hazard.  Even  when  fibrillation  does  not  occur,
there remains the potential for serious bodily injury, especially
above  400  volts.  The  reflex  action  to  an  impulse  shock  can  be
severe,  causing  persons  to  fall  off  of  elevated  platforms  or
ladders, knock a body part into nearby objects, or in some cases
cause  severe  muscle  clenching,  temporary  paralysis,  or  disloca‐
ted  joints.  This  reflex  hazard  extends  to  lower  energies  even
where  fibrillation  is  unlikely.  The  lower  threshold  for  hazard‐
ous reflex shocks is 0.25 joules for over 400 volts.
NR.3.7 Shock   Hazard   Thresholds.  Capacitors   connected   to
conductors  or  circuit  parts  operating  at  voltages  equal  to  or
greater than 100 volts and containing a stored energy equal to
or greater than 10 joules present a significant risk of shock and
fibrillation.  Below  10  joules,  a  significant  risk  of  reflex  action
leading to injury could exist in the following situations:
(1)100  volts–400  volts:  if  the  stored  energy  is  greater  than
1 joule
(2)>400 volts: if the stored energy is greater than 0.25 joules
NR.4 Short-Circuit  Hazard.  Capacitors  have  the  unique  ability
to  discharge  very  rapidly  in  a  shorted  condition  due  to  their
low  internal  impedance.  In  ac  power  systems,  faults  typically
occur  on  the  order  of  milliseconds  and  are  limited  by  trans‐
former  impedances.  Battery  faults  take  seconds  or  minutes  to
discharge. In contrast, capacitors have very little internal impe‐
dance  and  can  fully  discharge  in  microseconds,  with  very  high
discharge  current.  This  current  can  cause  heating  of  metals,
arc  flash  injury,  and  arc  blast  injury,  dependent  on  the  stored
energy  in  the  capacitor.  The  shock  injuries,  including  reflex
and fibrillation, are discussed in R.3.7. Additional hazards that
can  result  from  capacitor  energy  include  those  discussed  in
R.4.1 through R.4.3.
NR.4.1 Thermal Hazard.  At around 100 joules, a short through
a metal object in contact with the worker, such as a ring or tool,
can  cause  rapid  heating  and  burns  to  the  skin.  Above  1  kJ,
there can be substantial heating of metal, arcing, and magnetic
forces  causing  mechanical  deformation.  Above  10  kJ,  there  is
massive   conductor   melting,   massive   magnetic/mechanical
motion, and an arc blast hazard.
where:
V = voltage
t = time
Vp = peak voltage
τ = time constant
R = resistance
C = capacitance
0τ
0%
50%
Discharge: 
V (t ) = V
p
 
. e 
Time constant: τ = RC
2τ3τ4τ5τ
<5% after 3 τ
100%
τ
–t
/
FIGURE  R.3.1(b)     Typical Exponential Discharge Characteristic of a Capacitor Through a
Resistor.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–99
NR.4.2 Arc  Flash  Hazard.  At  approximately  120  kJ,  there  exists
sufficient  stored  energy  to  create  an  arc  flash  hazard  (greater
than  1.2  cal/cm
2
  at  a  working  distance  of  18  in.).  This  is  a
conservative lower bound that assumes all of the stored energy
has  been  converted  to  radiant  heat.  The  threshold  of  120  kJ
could  be  lower  for  a  capacitor  in  a  box.  There  could  be  an
additional contribution to the arc flash energy from an ac or dc
source connected to the capacitor or capacitor bank.
NR.4.3 Arc  Blast  Hazard.  Capacitors  can  have  a  significant  arc
blast hazard due to the very high short-circuit current involved.
The  effects  of  the  acoustic  shock  wave  can  rupture  eardrums
and  collapse  lungs.  While  hearing  protection  should  be  used
above  100  joules  to  mitigate  against  hearing  damage,  there  is
no  PPE  for  protection  against  lung  collapse,  which  becomes  a
hazard above 122 kJ.
NR.5  Internal Rupture.
NR.5.1 High  Currents.  When  a  capacitor  is  subjected  to  high
currents,  such  as  a  short  circuit  condition,  internal  stresses
could result in violent rupture of the capacitor enclosure.
NR.5.2  Internal Failure.  When capacitors are used to store large
amounts  of  energy,  internal  failure  of  one  capacitor  in  a  bank
could  result  in  the  rupture  and  explosion  of  the  failed  capaci‐
tors  when  all  other  capacitors  in  the  bank  discharge  into  the
fault.  Fuses  or  inductive  elements  are  often  used  to  limit  the
fault  current  from  a  capacitor  bank  into  a  faulted  individual
capacitor. Improperly sized fuses or inductive elements for this
application could explode.
NR.5.3 Fire  Hazard.  Rupture  of  a  capacitor  can  create  a  fire
hazard  from  ignition  of  the  dielectric  fluids.  Dielectric  fluids
can release toxic gases when decomposed by fire or the heat of
an electric arc.
NR.6  Performing a Risk Assessment for Capacitors.
NR.6.1 Annex  F.  The  risk  assessment  process  for  capacitors  can
follow  the  overall  risk  management  process  found  in  Annex  F.
This risk assessment should be coordinated with the shock risk
assessment of 130.4 and the arc flash risk assessment of 130.5.
NR.6.2 Exposure  to  Stored  Energy.  Whether  there  is  an  expo‐
sure  to  capacitor  stored  energy  hazard  should  be  determined.
An exposure would exist when a conductor or circuit part that
could   potentially   remain   energized   with   hazardous   stored
energy  is  not  properly  guarded,  enclosed,  or  insulated.  All
circuit  parts  that  are  electrically  connected  to  a  capacitor  or
capacitor bank could present this hazard. For example, a power
factor correction bank could be in a completely separate enclo‐
sure;  however,  should  the  bank  remained  charged  for  some
reason,  the  switchgear  to  which  it  is  connected  could  also
deliver the stored energy hazard.
NR.6.3 Determining  Shock  Hazard.  The  shock  hazard  should
be determined using both the voltage and stored energy of the
capacitor. A high-voltage capacitor is not a shock hazard below
the  energy  threshold  of  0.25  joules.  Use  the  shock  risk  assess‐
ment  process  of  130.4  and  the  dc  shock  approach  boundaries
(for  capacitors  above  100  volts  and  0.25  joules)  and  PPE
ratings.
NR.6.4 Determining  Total  Stored  Energy.  The  total  capacitor
stored energy (see R.8) of the system should be determined.
NR.6.5 Determining  Arc  Flash.  The  arc  flash  hazard  (see  R.9)
should  be  determined.  If  stored  energy  is  greater  than  120  kJ,
the arc flash incident energy and the arc flash boundary should
be  determined  at  the  appropriate  working  distance.  Appropri‐
ate  arc  flash  PPE  should  be  selected  accordingly,  but  workers
should always remain out of the arc blast lung protection boun‐
dary (see R.6.6).
NR.6.6  Determining Arc Blast Hazard.  The arc blast hazard (see
R.10)  should  be  determined.  Hearing  protection  should  be
used  where  the  stored  energy  exceeds  100  joules.  Where  the
stored  energy  exceeds  10  kJ,  the  hearing  protection  boundary
should  be  calculated.  If  stored  energy  is  above  122  kJ,  deter‐
mine  the  arc  blast  boundary  for  lung  hazards.  A  lung  collapse
hazard could exist above 122 kJ. DO NOT ENTER THE LUNG
PROTECTION  BOUNDARY.  There  is  no  PPE  for  lung  protec‐
tion.
NR.6.7  Determine the Test and Grounding Method.  (See R.11.)
NR.6.8  Determining Discharge Time.  If capacitors are equipped
with  bleed  resistors,  or  if  using  a  soft  grounding  system,  the
required  discharge  wait  time  should  be  determined  where
applicable  (see  R.12).  After  the  discharge  time  a  hard  ground
stick or hard grounding system should be applied.
NR.6.9  Written Discharge Procedure.  A written discharge proce‐
dure should be developed that captures all of the steps to place
the  equipment  into  an  electrically  safe  work  condition.  Infor‐
mation about the amount of stored energy available, how long
to  wait  after  de-energization  before  opening  the  enclosure,
how to test for absence of energy, and what to do if there is still
stored energy present should be included.
NR.6.10  Labeling.  Labeling  the  equipment  with  a  hazard  warn‐
ing  label  (see  R.15)  should  be  considered  so  that  qualified
persons are made aware of the potential for stored energy and
the  need  for  a  written  discharge  procedure.  The  maximum
voltage and stored energy should be included.
NR.7  Determining the Shock Hazard.
NR.7.1 Risk  Assessment.  A  shock  risk  assessment  should  be
performed  for  capacitors  exceeding  the  thresholds  in  360.3  in
accordance  with  130.4.  Shock  approach  boundaries  are  based
on  the  peak  voltage  and  the  dc  shock  approach  boundaries  of
Table  130.4(E)(b).  Appropriately  rated  shock  protection  PPE,
such  as  voltage-rated  gloves  and  dielectric  insulating  sheeting,
should  be  selected.  The  dc  ratings  for  rubber  insulated  prod‐
ucts should be used. (See ASTM D120, Standard Specification for
Rubber   Insulating   Gloves,   for   dc   ratings.)   The   restricted
approach boundary should be used to assist in the selection of
the  length  and  voltage  rating  of  the  ground  stick.  Capacitors
below  the  thresholds  defined  in  360.3  are  not  shock  hazards,
and 130.4 does not apply. This includes capacitors from 0 volts
to  100  volts  and  less  than  100  joules,  capacitors  100  volts  to
400  volts  and  less  than  1  joule,  and  capacitors  greater  than
400 volts and less than 0.25 joules.
NR.7.2 Shock  PPE.  Shock  protection  PPE  is  required  for  all
parts  of  the  body  that  enter  the  restricted  approach  boundary
for   capacitor   shock   hazards   defined   in   R.7.1.   [See   Table
130.4(E)(b).]
NR.8  Determining Capacitor Stored Energy.
NR.8.1 Capacitor  Stored  Energy.  Determining  capacitor  stored
energy  could  require  detailed  examination  of  schematics  or
manufacturer’s  information  to  properly  determine  both  the
peak voltage that will be applied to the capacitors and the total
capacitance. The value of capacitance and the capacitor voltage
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
70E–100
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
rating can also be obtained from the labels on the capacitor, if
done safely. Commercial capacitors often use unit labels of mF
for millifarads and MF for microfarads.
NR.8.2  The stored energy in a capacitor is calculated as follows:
ECV=
1
2
2
where:
E
=capacitive stored energy in joules
C
=total capacitance in farads
V
=peak voltage in volts
NR.8.3 Capacitor  Calculations.  Total  capacitance  of  capacitor
banks is calculated as follows:
(1)For capacitors in parallel, add the capacitance as follows:
CCCC
total
=+++
123
...
 
[R.8.3a]N
(2)For capacitors in series, use the following:
1    1   1   1
123
CCCC
total
=+++
⋅ ⋅ ⋅
 
[R.8.3b]N
(3)Capacitor  banks  used  for  power  factor  correction  are
often  labeled  with  a  kVAr  value  (kilovolt-amperes  reac‐
tive)  to  facilitate  power  engineering  calculations.  Calcu‐
late the capacitance as follows:
C
Q
fV
=
2
2
π
where:
C
=total capacitance in farads
Q
=reactive power in VAr (volt-amperes reactive)
f
=frequency in hertz
V
=phase-to-phase voltage in volts rms
 
[R.8.3c]N
(4)Long  high-voltage  coaxial  cables  can  have  significant
capacitance, normally on the order of 45 pF/m–10 pF/m
(1 picofarad = 1 × 10
−12
 F) for low-current applications, or
150  pF/m–450  pF/m  for  utility-grade,  medium-voltage
insulated  cable.  Manufacturer’s  specifications  on  capaci‐
tance per meter should be consulted.
NR.8.4  Voltage.  For peak voltage, the voltage applied across the
capacitors  that  would  cause  the  maximum  charge  should  be
used.  For  disconnected  capacitors  in  storage  or  for  disposal,
the capacitor rated voltage should be used.
NR.8.4.1  For  dc  systems,  use  the  maximum  available  terminal
voltage that could be applied to the capacitor by the system.
 
[R.8.2]N
NR.8.4.2  For  ac  systems,  nominal  system  voltage  is  normally
expressed in volts rms (root mean square). For capacitor stored
energy  calculations,  use  the  peak  amplitude  of  the  voltage,  V
p
,
as follows:
VVV
rmspp
==
1
2
0 707.
(1)For   single-phase   ac   systems,   use   peak   ac   voltage,   as
follows:
VV
prms
=
⋅
2
 
[R.8.4.2b]N
(2)For  3-phase  wye-connected  systems,  use  the  peak  phase-
to-neutral ac voltage, as follows:
VV
pN
=
−    ⋅φ
2
 
[R.8.4.2c]N
(3)For 3-phase delta-connected systems, use the peak phase-
to-phase ac voltage, as follows:
VV
cap
=
−  ⋅φ   φ
2
 
[R.8.4.2d]N
Informational   Note:   For   the   same   capacitance,   a   delta-
connected  system  will  have  a  total  energy  three  times  higher
than a wye-connected system. Always check the configuration as
design requirements vary.
NR.9  Determining the Arc Flash Hazard.
NR.9.1 Incident  Energy.  The  maximum  theoretical  possible  arc
flash incident energy can be calculated by assuming that all of
the  stored  energy  is  dissipated  as  radiant  energy  in  a  spherical
expansion in open air. While this is unlikely, it helps set a lower
bound  of  stored  energy  below  which  an  arc  flash  hazard  is
unlikely.
IE
Energy
Area
CV
r
CV
r
J    cm
open  air 
===
1
2
48
2
2
2
2
2
ππ
/
Converting  to  cal/cm2  (1  cal  =  4.184  joules)  we  obtain  the
following:
IE
CV
r
E
r
cal   cm
open  air 
==
2
22
2
105 152 6..
/
where:
IE
=incident energy
E
=energy
C
=capacitance
V
=voltage
r
=radius
 
[R.8.4.2a]N
 
[R.9.1a]N
 
[R.9.1b]N
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–101
NR.9.2 Arc Flash Boundary.  The arc flash boundary, where IE =
1.2 cal/cm
2
, is then as follows:
AFBE  cmE  in
open  air 
==0 1260 05.().(   .)
In a box, we can apply a three times factor over the open-air
incident energy calculation, as follows:
IEIE
boxopen  air
=   ×3
 
AFBAFB
boxopen  air
=×3
 
where:
AFB
=arc flash boundary
IE
=incident energy
Thus,  the  minimum  stored  energy  (lower  bound)  required
to obtain 1.2 cal/cm
2
 at a working distance of 18 in. is roughly
44 kJ in a box or 120 kJ in open air. Extreme caution should be
used  with  the  open-air  calculation,  as  the  arc  flash  boundary
can  fall  inside  the  lung  protection  boundary  for  arc  blast.  A
better practice is to always use the box arc flash boundary as a
minimum approach distance.
NR.10  Determining the Arc Blast Hazard.
NR.10.1  Hazard.  The  arc  blast  hazard  is  directly  related  to  the
instantaneous  (initial)  short  circuit  current.  Since  capacitors
can discharge very rapidly, the shockwave generated by a capac‐
itor  discharge  can  cause  barotrauma  (overpressure  injury)  to
persons  in  the  area.  The  most  sensitive  organs  are  the  ears,
lungs,  and  brain.  When  a  differential  pressure  across  the
eardrums  exceeds  around  20–35  kilopascals  (3–5  psi),  the
eardrum can rupture. At 200 kilopascals (29 psi), lung damage
can  occur.  The  following  formulas  are  used  to  estimate  safe
boundaries  based  on  total  stored  energy,  where  “safe”  is  less
than a 1 percent probability of eardrum rupture or lung injury:
R
E
ear
=−49 29
1000
5 09
3
..
R
E
lung
=−31 32
1000
155 45
3
..
where:
R
ear
=eardrum rupture boundary (1 percent probability) in
cm
R
lung
=
lung collapse boundary (1 percent probability) in cm
E
=capacitor stored energy in joules
Informational Note: For more information about the derivation
of  these  formulas,  see  Charles  R.  Hummer,  Richard  J.  Pearson,
and Donald H. Porschet, “Safe Distances From a High-Energy Capac‐
itor Bank for Ear and Lung Protection,” Army Research Laboratory
Report, ARL-TN-608, July 2014.
 
[R.9.2a]N
 
[R.9.2b]N
 
[R.9.2c]N
 
[R.10.1a]N
 
[R.10.1b]N
NR.10.2 Above 122 kJ.  Above 122 kJ a lung collapse hazard can
exist.  It  is  not  sufficient  to  wear  arc  flash  PPE,  as  this  will  not
protect against lung injury. Remain outside of the lung collapse
boundary.
NR.10.3 Above 448 kJ.  Above 448 kJ, the lung protection boun‐
dary  will  be  greater  than  the  arc  flash  boundary  in  open  air
calculated in R.9. A better practice is to always use the box arc
flash  boundary  as  a  minimum  approach  distance.  (See  Figure
R.10.3.)
NR.11  Selecting the Appropriate Test and Grounding Method.
NR.11.1 Method  Selection.  The  method  to  safely  discharge  or
verify  discharge  of  a  capacitor  will  vary  depending  on  the
degree  of  hazard.  Low-voltage,  low-energy  capacitors  can  be
verified  de-energized  with  a  properly  rated  test  instrument
meeting  the  requirements  of  110.8  and/or  hard  grounded.  At
higher  energy  and  voltage,  soft  grounding  through  a  resistor
could  be  needed  to  limit  the  discharge  current.  At  very  high
energies (>100 kJ), manual testing or grounding can become a
serious  arc  blast  hazard,  and  remote  metering  and  grounding
should be performed.
NR.11.2 Bleed  Systems.  For  systems  with  permanently  installed
bleed  systems,  testing  for  absence  of  voltage  after  the  pre‐
scribed  discharge  time  can  be  performed  instead  of  applying
grounds.  Testing  can  also  be  performed  as  a  means  to  verify
absence of voltage after an automatically switched bleed system
has  grounded  the  system.  In  all  cases,  the  test  device  must  be
rated for the system. (See Table R.11.9 for the appropriate test
method.)
NR.11.2.1  Below  1000  volts  and  below  10  kJ,  a  properly  rated,
high-impedance digital voltmeter (DVM) can be used.
NR.11.2.2  Above  1000  volts  and  below  100  joules,  a  properly
rated,  high-impedance  digital  voltmeter  (DVM)  can  be  used
with an approved attachment for measuring high-voltage dc on
non-utility   systems.   On   utility   systems,   a   utility-grade,   dc,
resistive-type voltmeter must be used with a live-line tool.
NR.11.2.3  Above 1000 volts and between 100 joules and 100 kJ, a
utility-grade, dc, resistive-type voltmeter can be used with a live-
line tool.
NR.11.2.4  Above  100  kJ,  engineered  method  can  be  used  only
for verifying absence of voltage.
NR.11.3 Hard  Grounding.  Hard  grounding  is  the  practice  of
shorting   a   capacitor   from   terminal   to   terminal   and   then
directly  to  ground.  Since  the  resistance  is  typically  <0.1  ohm,
the  discharge  time  is  rapid  and  the  discharge  current  can  be
high. An intense spark and a loud noise can happen at higher
energies.  Above  100  joules  there  is  a  hearing  damage  hazard.
The  voltage  reversal  associated  with  using  a  hard  ground  can
put  excessive  voltage  stress  on  the  capacitor.  Since  this  is  an
equipment issue, check with the manufacturer for their recom‐
mendations.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
70E–102
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
NR.11.4 Soft   Grounding.  Soft   grounding   is   the   practice   of
discharging a capacitor through a resistor rated for the power.
The resistor raises the time constant (τ = RC) and reduces the
peak discharge current (I = V/R) to safer levels. Soft discharge
is necessary above 1000 joules.
NR.11.5 End of Discharge Time.  At the conclusion of the speci‐
fied  discharge  time,  there  is  still  voltage  on  the  capacitors.  A
properly matched resistor and capacitor will reduce the voltage
to less than 50 volts and the energy to less than 5 joules. At this
point hard grounding is applied to fully short the capacitors to
ground.
NR.11.6 Resistor  Connection  Point.  Sometimes  the  grounding
resistor is attached directly to the grounding stick. Other times,
there  are  two  separate  grounding  points  built  into  the  equip‐
ment  itself.  The  grounding  point  labeled  “High-Z”  is  the  soft
grounding  point,  where  “High-Z”  stands  for  high  impedance.
The  grounding  point  labeled  “Low-Z”  is  the  hard  grounding
point, directly to ground. In this case the same ground stick is
applied,  first  to  the  High-Z  point,  then  to  the  Low-Z  ground
point. See Figure R.11.9.
NR.11.7 Lung   Protection   Boundary.  The   grounding   method
should  keep  all  personnel  clear  of  the  lung  protection  boun‐
dary.  For  this  reason,  above  100  kJ,  remote  soft  grounding  is
necessary.
NR.11.8 Ground   Sticks.  All   ground   sticks   should   meet   the
construction and periodic inspection requirements of R.16.
NR.11.9 Use  of  Table  for  Method  Selection.  See  Table  R.11.9,
Figure  R.11.9(a),  and  Figure  R.11.9(b)for  selection  of  the
proper test and grounding methods.
Stored energy (kJ)
0
100
Boundary (cm)
200
300
400
500
600
700
100
300
500
700
900
1100
1300
1500
1700
1
900
Eardrum
rupture
boundary
Arc flash
boundary in a box
(1.2 cal/cm
2
)
Lung collapse
boundary
(1% probability)
Arc flash
boundary in
open air
(1.2 cal/cm
2
)
FIGURE  R.10.3     Plot of Arc Flash and Blast Protection Boundaries.
Table R.11.9  Capacitor Test and Grounding Matrix to Establish Safe Discharge
Test Method
 
Grounding Method
 0–100 volts100–1 kV>1 kV
 
 0–100 volts100–1 kV>1 kV
< 0.25 joulesNot applicableNot applicableNot applicable< 0.25 joulesNot applicableNot applicableNot applicable
0.25–100 joulesNot applicableDVMDVM with HV 
adapter
0.25–100 joulesNot applicableHard ground okHard ground ok
100 joules–1 kJDVMDVMHV utility 
grade dc 
voltmeter
100 joules–1 kJHard ground okHard ground okHard ground ok
1 kJ–100 kJDVMDVMHV utility 
grade dc 
voltmeter
1 kJ–100 kJSoft ground then 
hard ground
Soft ground then 
hard ground
Soft ground then 
hard ground
>100 kJEngineered 
method
Engineered 
method
Engineered 
method
>100 kJRemote 
grounding only
Remote 
grounding only
Remote 
grounding only
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–103
NR.11.10 Other   Considerations.  Other   considerations   are   as
follows:
(1)Charge   transfer:   Grounding   capacitors   in   series   may
transfer charge between capacitors rather than discharge
the  stored  energy.  Special  precaution  should  be  taken  in
selecting  the  tools  and  sequence  necessary  to  discharge
capacitors  connected  in  series.  Improper  grounding  can
result in moving charge around and not fully discharging
to  ground.  Capacitor  cases  are  not  always  grounded  and
should  be  considered  charged  unless  otherwise  deter‐
mined.
(2)Dielectric absorption: Not all the energy in a capacitor is
dissipated  when  it  is  short-circuited  for  a  short  time.
Although   the   charge   on   the   plates   may   be   initially
removed, dielectric polarization can cause charge to accu‐
mulate  after  the  ground  is  removed.  A  voltage  recharge
of  up  to  10  percent  can  occur  a  few  minutes  after  the
grounding or shorting device has been removed. This can
occur in capacitors with liquid dielectrics, such as an elec‐
trolytic  capacitor,  and  in  capacitors  with  solid  dielectrics,
such as polyethylene film capacitors.
(3)High-voltage  capacitors  can  build  a  charge  in  the  pres‐
ence of high electric fields.
(4)A momentary hazardous voltage can exist at the moment
of  contact  across  the  inductance  of  a  few  feet  of  the
grounding  cable  of  a  ground  stick  at  the  moment  of
contact  with  a  charged  capacitor.  This  is  why  a  worker
should   never   hold   the   grounding   cable   during   a
discharge event.
NR.12  Determining the Capacitor Discharge Time.
NR.12.1 Discharge Time.  The discharge time, T
d
, of a capacitor
is the time it takes to reduce to less than 100 volts. It is related
to the time constant, τ. The discharge resistance can be perma‐
nently  installed  on  the  capacitors  (e.g.,  a  bleeder  resistor),
automatically  switched  in  after  power  shutoff  (e.g.,  a  resistor
dump bank), or applied through a soft grounding stick.
NR.12.2 Voltages   1000   Volts   and   Less.  For   voltages   up   to
1000 volts, it is sufficient to wait three times the time constant,
or  one  minute,  whichever  is  greater.  That  is  because  after  3τ,
the residual voltage is less than 5 percent of the initial voltage.
R
body
V
C
Hard grounding: An insulating stick with a
grounding tip is used to discharge a
capacitor between its two terminals and 
then to ground.
Soft grounding 1: An insulating stick with
a mounted resistor is used to perform a
controlled discharge of the capacitor
charge using the High-Z tip first. Then, after
the prescribed wait time, hard grounding
is applied with the second (Low-Z) tip that
bypasses the resistor.
Soft grounding 2: An insulating stick with
a grounding tip is first applied to the High-Z
point to perform a controlled discharge of
the capacitor. Then, after the prescribed 
wait time, the grounding tip is applied to the
Low-Z point to bypass the resistor and 
hard-ground the capacitor.
R
body
V
C
R
body
V
C
Hi-Z
Lo-Z
R
bleed
R
bleed
Hi-Z
Lo-Z
High-Z
Low-Z
Low-Z
High-Z
FIGURE  R.11.9(a)     Illustration of Hard and Soft Grounding Examples
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
70E–104
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
NR.12.3 Voltages  Greater  Than  1000  Volts.  For  voltages  greater
than 1000 volts, the discharge time will need to be longer than
3τ  and  should  be  calculated.  Use  the  following  formula  to
determine the minimum wait time:
τ=RC
T
V
d
p
= −








1
100
nτ
where:
τ=time constant
R
=discharge path resistance
C
=total capacitance
T
d
=
discharge time (wait time)
V
p
=
peak voltage
NR.13  Establishing an Electrically Safe Work Condition.
NR.13.1 Written   Discharge   Procedure.  Where   a   conductor
circuit  part  is  operating  at  or  above  100  volts  and  10  joules,  a
written  discharge  procedure  (such  as  a  complex  LOTO  proce‐
dure) should be used to document the necessary steps to place
the equipment in an electrically safe work condition. The writ‐
ten  discharge  procedure  should  incorporate  the  results  of  the
risk assessment performed in R.6 and specify the following at a
minimum:
(1)Voltage in volts
 
[R.12.3a]N
 
[R.12.3b]N
(2)Energy in joules
(3)Specific  steps  to  safely  discharge  the  capacitor  or  verify
that it is discharged
(4)Specific tool(s)(e.g., ground stick) or engineering system
to discharge the capacitors, if necessary
(5)Specific   test   instruments   (e.g.,   DVM)   or   engineered
systems used to verify a de-energized state
NR.13.2 Electrically Safe Work Condition.  In order to place the
equipment with stored hazardous energy in an electrically safe
work  condition,  a  qualified  person  should  follow  the  steps  in
120.5  as  well  as  the  specific  sequence  outlined  in  the  written
discharge procedure. The process to remove stored energy in a
capacitor is a part of the overall process to establish an electri‐
cal  safe  work  condition  in  120.5.  These  would  then  be  as
follows:
(1)Review  the  scope  of  work  and  the  written  discharge
procedure.  Determine  all  safe  approach  boundaries  and
necessary PPE and tools for the task.
(2)Perform  a  job  briefing  with  the  personnel  involved  and
notify  affected  persons  that  the  equipment  will  be  de-
energized.
(3)After  properly  interrupting  the  supply  current,  open  the
disconnecting   device(s)   for   each   source   feeding   the
equipment.
(4)Wherever  possible,  visually  verify  that  all  blades  of  the
disconnecting devices are fully open or that drawout-type
circuit  breakers  are  withdrawn  to  the  fully  disconnected
position.
(5)Apply lockout/tagout devices in accordance with a docu‐
mented  and  established  policy,  or  use  plug  control  on
smaller equipment.
< 1000 joules
1000 joules–100 kJ
Discharge stored
energy
Verify discharge
(test or ground)
Keep discharged
(short and/or
ground)
Bleed resistors
or automatic
discharge
installed?
Bleed resistors
or automatic
discharge
installed?
Hard groundSoft ground
NONO
YES
YES
OR
> 100 kJ
Remote test
and
ground
Wait the
discharge
time
TestSoft ground
Hard ground
Short out
terminals or leave
ground applied
Short out
terminals or leave
ground applied
Short out
terminals or leave
ground applied
Manual test
and
ground
Wait the
discharge
time
OR
TestHard ground
FIGURE  R.11.9(b)     Flowchart of Capacitor Test and Grounding Methods to Establish Safe Discharge
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
70E–105
(6)If bleed resistors or automatic discharge systems are appli‐
cable,  wait  the  prescribed  time  for  the  capacitors  to  fully
discharge to less than the thresholds in 360.3.
(7)Perform the test and ground method selected in R.11.
To  ensure  that  recharging  does  not  occur,  all  of  the  capaci‐
tor  terminals  should  be  connected  together  (shorted)  and
grounded with a non-insulated wire of sufficient gauge to with‐
stand   handling.   For   series   capacitors   these   shorting   wires
should  be  attached  across  each  individual  capacitor  and  to
case. For single capacitors or for a parallel capacitor bank, the
grounding  device  should  be  permitted  to  be  left  hanging  on
the  capacitor  terminal  during  the  work  (e.g.,  a  ground  stick/
hook).
NR.14  Storage and Disposal.
NR.14.1 Residual  Charge.  Any  residual  charge  from  capacitors
should  be  removed  by  discharging  the  terminals  before  servic‐
ing or removal.
NR.14.2  Stored Capacitors.  All uninstalled capacitors capable of
storing energy exceeding the thresholds of 360.3 at their rated
voltage should be short-circuited with a conductor of appropri‐
ate size.
NR.14.3 Capacitors   Without   Shorting   Wire.  When   an   unin‐
stalled capacitor is discovered without a shorting wire attached
to the terminals, it should be treated as energized and charged
to its full rated voltage until determined otherwise. A qualified
person should be contacted to determine the appropriate steps
to safely discharge the capacitor.
NR.14.4 Change   in   Initial   Capacitance.  Large,   high-voltage
capacitors  are  often  formed  of  a  network  of  smaller  capacitor
elements connected inside a case. When such a capacitor devel‐
ops  an  internal  open  circuit,  it  can  retain  a  substantial  charge
internally   even   though   the   external   terminals   are   short-
circuited.  Such  a  capacitor  can  be  hazardous  to  transport
because   the   damaged   internal   wiring   can   reconnect   and
discharge the capacitor through the short-circuiting wires. Any
capacitor that shows a significant change in capacitance after a
fault can have this problem. Action should be taken to reduce
the risk associated with this hazard when it is discovered.
NR.15  Capacitor Hazard Labeling.
NR.15.1  Labeling.  Electrical  equipment  operating  at  or  above
100  volts  and  10  joules  should  be  field  marked  with  a  label
containing all the following information:
(1)A   warning   about   the   potential   for   capacitive   stored
energy, with the word “WARNING” on an orange colored
background
(2)Stored energy in joules and the maximum voltage for that
stored energy
(3)The  required  wait  time  before  opening  the  enclosure
(the  wait  time  needs  to  be  greater  than  the  discharge
time)
(4)Date of the stored energy hazard analysis
(5)An  instruction  that  a  qualified  person  is  necessary  and
that they should use a written discharge procedure
NR.15.2  Labeling  should  conform  to  the  requirements  of  ANSI
Z535.4, Product Safety Signs and Labels.
NR.16  Ground Sticks.
NR.16.1 Use  of  Ground  Sticks.  Ground  sticks  should  be  provi‐
ded for qualified persons to safely discharge any residual stored
energy contained in capacitor(s). The ground sticks should be
designed,  constructed,  installed,  and  periodically  inspected  so
that  the  full  energy  of  a  capacitor(s)  can  be  safely  discharged.
See Table R.11.9 for selection guidance.
NR.16.2  Construction.  Design and construction are as follows:
(1)Ground  stick  rod:  When  built  of  fiber  reinforced  plastic
(FRP), the rod in the ground stick assembly should meet
ASTM  F711,  Standard  Specification  for  Fiberglass-Reinforced
Plastic (FRP) Rod and Tube Used in Live Line Tools, specifica‐
tions.  Other  insulating  materials  may  be  used  provided
they  are  of  acceptable  insulation  and  durability  for  the
application.  The  stick  should  be  long  enough  to  be
handled effectively and also to keep a person’s hands out
of the restricted approach boundary. This should include
a  non-moveable  hand  stop  to  remind  the  worker  during
use where to hold the ground stick.
(2)Ground   stick   tip:   The   ground   stick   connection   to
discharge  points  may  be  chain  links,  bare  conductor,  or
solid  copper  bar  in  various  geometries.  The  selection  of
the  grounding  tip  should  match  the  requirements  of  the
intended application and ensure that all necessary circuit
parts are fully discharged and grounded at the same time
in order to avoid charge transfer. The grounding tips can
be designed to remain applied (e.g., a hook) in order to
safely   prevent   recharging   from   dielectric   absorption.
Alternatively,  shorting  straps  may  be  applied  while  the
grounding sticks are applied. Discharge points should be
clearly  marked  and  caution  should  be  used  to  prevent
transferring  charge  to  other  capacitors  or  reversing  the
charge on affected capacitors.
(3)Ground stick resistor: Soft grounding should be provided
where  stored  energy  exceeds  1000  joules.  The  resistor
used to soft ground a capacitor(s) should be fully rated to
handle power, voltage, and current. An engineering safety
margin  would  be  to  calculate  peak  power,  voltage  and
current,  and  double  the  resistor  rating  for  each  parame‐
ter. The resistor should be able to discharge the capacitor
bank  to  less  than  50  volts  and  less  than  5  joules  in  less
than 1 minute (less than1000 volts) or less than 5 minutes
(greater  than  1000  volts).  Ideally,  the  current  should  be
limited  to  500  amperes  peak  in  order  to  reduce  the
magnetic force on the ground stick and its cable. This can
require a discharge time longer than 5 minutes. Note that
soft  grounding  is  always  followed  by  hard  grounding  to
complete the discharge.
(4)Ground  stick  cable:  The  cable  should  be  grounding  or
welding  cable,  flexible  rope  lay,  soft  drawn  copper.  The
individual  strands  should  not  be  larger  than  #30  AWG.
Grounding cables have flexible, transparent elastomer or
thermoplastic jackets primarily for mechanical protection
of the conductor it covers and to allow visual examination
of  stranding  degradation.  Connections  should  be  crim‐
ped  according  to  manufacturer  instructions.  The  lugs
should  be  rated  for  the  cables  to  be  clamped.  In  perma‐
nent  equipment  installations  the  cable  conductor  size
should  be  sized  no  smaller  than  #10  AWG  stranded  and
capable of safely carrying the potential discharge current.
For  temporary  or  benchtop  situations,  the  conductor
should   be   capable   of   safely   carrying   any   potential
discharge current. Ground sticks should never be fused.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INFORMATIVE ANNEX R
70E–106
Shaded text = Revisions. Δ = Text deletions and figure/table revisions.    • = Section deletions. N = New material.
NR.16.3  Installation.  Installation is as follows:
(1)Connection to building grounding system: Ground sticks
should be connected to the building grounding electrode
system  where  practicable.  A  qualified  engineer  should
evaluate the connection point to the building grounding
system to ensure the integrity of the ground stick system.
This connection should be in a location accessible to and
visible to the operator of the ground stick. Ground sticks
should  be  connected  such  that  impedance  is  less  than
0.1  ohms  to  ground.  High-Z  ground  sticks  should  be
connected  such  that  impedance  is  less  than  0.1  ohms
between the resistor and the ground connection.
(2)Operator  access:  The  ground  sticks  should  be  perma‐
nently grounded and stored in the immediate area of the
equipment  in  a  manner  that  ensures  they  are  used.  The
approach path to the equipment being grounded should
be perpendicular to the equipment and clear of debris or
obstructions.  The  ground  stick  operator  will  then  always
be  facing  the  potential  hazard  and  have  the  grounded
conductor  between  them  and  the  potentially  energized
equipment. For cases of capacitors in a field situation, or
in  portable  equipment,  a  portable  ground  stick  may  be
used.  The  ground  stick  must  be  effectively  connected  to
the system ground, by a bolt or heavy-duty clamp, before
opening the enclosure.
NR.16.4  Visual Inspection.  Visual inspection is as follows:
(1)The ground stick should be visually inspected for defects
before use each day.
(2)If any defect or contamination that could adversely affect
the  insulating  qualities  or  mechanical  integrity  of  the
ground stick is present, the tool should be removed from
service.  All  mechanical  connections  should  be  examined
for loose connections. Ground sticks should have a hand
guard that reduces the risk of improper hand position.
(3)If  the  defect  or  contamination  exists  on  the  grounding
stick, then it should be replaced.
(4)If the defect or contamination exists on the cable, then it
should  be  replaced  or  repaired  and  tested  before  return
to service.
NR.16.5 Biennial Testing (every 2 years).  A ground stick system
places a grounded conductor at the end of the rod between the
operator  and  the  electrical  hazard.  The  low  impedance  (Low-
Z) ground stick system is not a live line tool, and there will not
be a voltage potential at the end of the ground stick rod. High-
impedance (High-Z) ground sticks can have a voltage potential
at the end of the rod and should be treated as live line tools.
(1)For  all  ground  sticks:  The  ground  stick  system  should  be
tested  to  verify  that  impedance  is  less  than  0.1  ohms  to
ground.  This  test  should  be  performed  annually  when  it
is located outside or under any other adverse conditions.
(2)All   High-Z   ground   stick   insulating   rods   should   be
removed from service to be recertified to the ASTM F711,
Standard  Specification  for  Fiberglass-Reinforced  Plastic  (FRP)
Rod  and  Tube  Used  in  Live  Line  Tools,  standard  or  equiva‐
lent.
(3)High-Z  ground  sticks  with  resistors:  The  resistor  on  the
High-Z  ground  stick  should  be  measured  and  compared
to the specified value.
NR.17  References.
  IEC TS 60479-1, 4th Edition (2005), Effects of
Current  on  Human  Beings  and  Livestock,  Part  1,  General  Aspects,
Geneva, Switzerland.
IEC  TS  60479-2,  3rd  Edition  (2007),  Effects  of  Current  on
Human Beings and Livestock, Part 2, Special Aspects, Geneva, Swit‐
zerland.
DOE-HDBK-1092-2013,   DOE   Handbook   for   Electrical   Safety,
U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC.
Dalziel,  Charles  F.,  “A  Study  of  the  Hazards  of  Impulse
Currents,”  Transactions  of  the  American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engi‐
neers.  Part  III:  Power  Apparatus  and  Systems,  Volume  72,  Issue  2,
1953, DOI: 10.1109/AIEEPAS.1953.4498738.
Gordon, Lloyd B. and Cartelli, Laura, “A Complete Electrical
Hazard  Classification  System  and  Its  Application,”  IEEE  Trans‐
actions  on  Industry  Applications,  Vol.  54,  pp.  6554–6565,  Novem‐
ber/December 2018.
Hummer,  Charles  R.,  Pearson,  Richard  J.,  and  Porschet,
Donald  H.,  “Safe  Distances  From  a  High-Energy  Capacitor
Bank for Ear and Lung Protection,” Army Research Laboratory
Report, ARL-TN-608, July 2014.
Richmond,  D.R.,  Yelverton,  J.T.,  Fletcher,  E.R.,  and  Phillips,
YY, “Physical Correlates of Eardrum Rupture,” Annals of Otology
Rhinology and Laryngology, Vol. 109 (May 1989): 35–41.
Scott,  Mark,  “Working  Safely  with  Hazardous  Capacitors:
Establishing  Practical  Thresholds  for  Risks  Associated  With
Stored  Capacitor  Energy,”  IEEE  Industry  Applications  Magazine,
Vol. 25, Issue 3, 2019: 44–53.
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INDEX
2021 Edition    ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–107
Index
Copyright © 2020 National Fire Protection Association. All Rights Reserved.
The copyright in this index is separate and distinct from the copyright in the document that it indexes. The licensing provisions
set  forth  for  the  document  are  not  applicable  to  this  index.  This  index  may  not  be  reproduced  in  whole  or  in  part  by  any  means
without the express written permission of NFPA.
 
-A-
Accessible (as applied to
equipment), 
120.4(B)(6), 330.4(A)
Definition, Art. 100
Access plates, 230.2
Aerial lifts, 130.9(F)(1)
Alarms, battery
operation, 320.3(A)(5)
Approach distances,  see also
Boundary
Limits of, Annex C
Preparation for, C.1
Qualified persons, 130.4(F)(3),
130.4(G), C.1.1, C.1.2
Unqualified persons, 130.4(F),
130.9(E), C.1.1
Approved (definition), Art. 100
Arc blast, 360.4(B), K.4
Arc blast hazard, R.4.1, R.4.3,
R.6.6, R.10, R.11.1
Definition, 360.2
Arc flash boundary,  see Boundary,
arc flash
Arc flash hazard, 130.2, K.3, O.2.3
Battery room warning
signs, 320.3(A)(6)
Capacitors, R.4.2, R.6.5, R.9
Cell line working zone, 
310.5(C)(4)
Definition, Art. 100
Protection from,  see Arc flash
protective equipment
Arc flash protective
equipment, 130.5, 130.7,
360.4(B), Annex H,
R.10.2
Qualified persons, use by, 
C.1.2.1, C.1.2.3
Unqualified persons, use by, 
C.1.1
Arc flash risk
assessment, 130.2(B),
130.5, O.2.4
Batteries, 320.3(A)(2)
Capacitors, 360.4(B)
Electrolytic cell line working
zones, 310.5(C)
Arc flash suit, 130.7(C)(10),
130.7(C)(13),
130.7(C)(15)
Definition, Art. 100
Arc rating
Definition, Art. 100
Total system arc rating,
protective clothing, M.3
Arc-resistant equipment, 0.2.4,
130.5(C), 130.7(C)(15)
Definition, Art. 100
Attachment plug (plug cap)
(plug), 110.9(B),
110.9(C)
Definition, Art. 100
Maintenance, 245.1
Attendants, to warn and protect
employees, 130.7(E)(3)
Auditing, 110.5(M)
Authority having jurisdiction
(definition), Art. 100
Authorized person
Battery rooms or areas restricted
to, 320.3(A)(3)
Definition, 320.2
Automatic (definition), Art. 100
-B-
Balaclava, 130.5(G), 130.7(C)(10),
130.7(C)(15)
Definition, Art. 100
Barricades, 130.7(E)(2)
Definition, Art. 100
Barriers,  see also Protective
barriers
Definition, Art. 100
Electrolytic cells, safe work
practices, 310.5(D)(3)
Laser systems, 330.5(D)
Maintenance of, 250.1
Physical or mechanical, 
130.7(D)(2), 130.8(F),
O.2.4
Rotating equipment, 230.2
Batteries
Abnormal conditions, alarms
for, 320.3(A)(5)
Cell flame arresters, 320.3(D)
Definition, 320.2
Electrolyte hazards, 320.3(B)
Maintenance requirements,
safety-related, Art. 240
Personal protective equipment
(PPE), use of, 
320.3(A)(6)
Safety requirements, Art. 320
Tools and equipment, use
of, 320.3(C)
Valve-regulated lead acid cell
(definition), 320.2
Vented cell (definition), 320.2
Ventilation, 240.1, 320.3(D)
VRLA (valve-regulated lead acid
cell) (definition), 320.2
Battery effect (definition), 310.2
Battery enclosures, 320.3(A)(3)
Battery rooms
Definition, 320.2
Requirements, 320.3(A)(3)
Bleed resistors, 360.4(B),
360.5(B), R.6.8, R.13.2
Definition, 360.2
Bleed systems, testing, R.11.2
Blind reaching, electrical safety
program, 130.8(B)
Body wash apparatus, 240.2
Bonded (bonding)
Definition, Art. 100
Maintenance of bonding, 205.6
Bonding conductor or jumper
(definition), Art. 100
Boundary, 120.4(B)(6);  see also
Approach distances
Approach boundaries to
energized conductors or
circuits, 130.2, C.1.1,
C.1.2
Arc flash, 130.2(B), 130.5(C),
130.5(E), 130.5(H),
C.1.2.1, R.10.3
Calculations, Annex D, R.9.2
Definition, Art. 100
Protective equipment, use
of, 130.7(C)(15), C.1.1,
C.1.2.1, C.1.2.3
Limited approach, 110.3,
110.4(B), 130.2(B),
130.4(E), 130.4(F),
130.7(D)(1), 130.9,
C.1.1, C.1.2.2; see also
Approach distances
Definition, Art. 100
Restricted approach, 130.2,
130.4(E), 130.4(G),
130.7(C), 130.7(D),
C.1.1, C.1.2.3, R.7; see also
Approach distances
Definition, Art. 100
Shock protection, 130.4(C),
130.4(E), R.7
Building 
(definition), Art. 100
-C-
Cabinets (definition), Art. 100
Cable
Flexible,  see Flexible cords and
cables
Maintenance of, 205.13
Cable trays, maintenance, 215.3
Capacitors
Arc blast hazard,  see Arc blast
hazard
Arc flash hazard, R.4.2, R.6.5,
R.9
Definitions, 360.2
Discharge time,  see Discharge
time
Grounding,  see Grounded
(grounding)
Ground sticks,  see Ground sticks
Hazard warning labeling, R.6.10,
R.15
Internal rupture, R.5
Risk assessment, 360.4(B),
360.5(A), R.6, R.7.1
Safety-related requirements
for, Art. 360
Shock hazard, R.3, R.7
Short-circuit hazard, R.4
Storage and disposal, 360.6(C),
R.14
Stored energy, 360.3, R.8
Testing,  see Testing
Working with, Annex R
Cell
Definition, 320.2
Electrolytic,  see Electrolytic cell
Cell line,  see Electrolytic cell line
Charge transfer, R.11.10, R.16.2
Definition, 360.2
Chemical hazard, 320.3(A)(2),
320.3(A)(6)
Circuit breakers
Definition, Art. 100
Molded-case, 225.2
Reclosing circuits after
operation, 130.8(M)
Routine opening and closing of
circuits, 130.8(L)
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 225
Testing, 225.3
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–108
ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE    2021 Edition
Circuits
De-energized,  see De-energized
Energized, working on or near
parts that are or might
become,  see Working on
energized electrical
conductors or circuit
Identification, maintenance
of, 205.12
Impedance, 120.5
Interlocks, re-energizing
by, 120.2(D)
Reclosing after protective device
operation, 130.8(M)
Routine opening and closing
of, 130.8(L)
Clear spaces, 130.8(H), 205.9
Combustible dust, 130.8(J)
Competent person, 350.4(B),
350.5
Definition, 350.2
Complex lockout/tagout
procedure, 120.2(H),
120.4(A)(5), Annex G
Condition of
maintenance, 110.5(C)
Definition, Art. 100
Conductive (definition), Art. 100
Conductive work
locations, 110.9(D)
Conductors
Bare (definition), Art. 100
Covered (definition), Art. 100
Cutting, removing, or
rerouting, 130.12
De-energized,  see De-energized
Energized,  see Working on
energized electrical
conductors or circuit
Grounding conductors,
equipment
(EGC), 110.9(B)
Definition, Art. 100
Identification,  see Identified/
identification
Insulated
Definition, Art. 100
Integrity of insulation,
maintenance of, 210.4
Maintenance of, 205.13, 210.3
Contractors, relationship
with, 110.7
Control devices, 120.2(E)
Controllers (definition), Art. 100
Cord- and plug-connected
equipment, 110.9
Connecting attachment
plugs, 110.9(C),
110.9(E)
Grounding-type
equipment, 110.9(B)
Handling, 110.9(A)
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 245
Visual inspection, 110.9(C)
Cords, flexible,  see Flexible cords
and cables
Covers, 215.1
Cranes, 310.5(D)(9)
Current-limiting overcurrent
protective device
(definition), Art. 100
Cutout
Definition, Art. 100
Portable cutout–type
switches, 310.5(D)(8)
Cutting, 130.11, 130.12
-D-
De-energized,  see also Electrically
safe work condition
Conductors or circuit parts that
have lockout/tagout
devices applied, 120.4(A)
(4), 120.4(B)(6)
Definition, Art. 100
Equipment operating at less
than 50 volts, 110.4(C)
Failure of equipment, 130.8(K)
Infeasibility of task in de-
energized state, 110.4(B)
Process to de-energize
equipment, 120.4(B)(1),
120.4(B)(3), R.6.9
Protective device operation,
reclosing circuits
after, 130.8(M)
Testing of parts, 120.4(B)(6),
120.5, R.13.1
Uninsulated overhead
lines, 130.9(C)
Definitions, Art. 100
Batteries and battery
rooms, 320.2
Electrolytic cells, 310.2
Lasers, 330.2
Power electronic
equipment, 340.2
Research and development
laboratories, 350.2
Device (definition), Art. 100
Dielectric absorption, 360.5(B),
R.11.10, R.16.2
Definition, 360.2
Discharge procedure,
capacitors, R.6.9, R.6.10,
R.13.1, R.13.2, R.15.1
Discharge time, R.6.8, R.12
Definition, 360.2
Disconnecting means, 120.2(E),
120.5 see also Circuit
breakers
Definition, Art. 100
Lockout/tagout devices, use
of, 120.4(B)(3),
120.4(B)(11)
Reclosing circuits after
operation, 130.8(M)
Routine opening and closing of
circuits, 130.8(L)
Disconnecting (or isolating)
switches (disconnector,
isolator),  see also
Disconnecting means
Definition, Art. 100
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
Documentation
Arc flash risk
assessment, 130.5(D)
Capacitors, electrically safe work
condition for, 360.5(A)
Electrical safety
program, 105.3(A),
110.5(A), 110.5(M)(4),
110.7(C)
Equipment labeling, 130.5(H)
Laboratory, unlisted equipment
for, 350.7(A)
Of maintenance, 205.3
Shock risk assessment, 130.4(D)
Training, employees, 110.6(C)
(4)
Doors, secured, 130.8(G)
Drilling, 130.11
Dust, combustible, 130.8(J)
Dwelling unit (definition), Art. 100
-E-
Electrical hazard, Art. 130 see also
Arc flash hazard; Risk;
Shock hazard
Alerting techniques, 130.7(E)
Categories of
General, Annex K
Personal protective equipment
required for,  see
Personal protective
equipment (PPE)
Definition, Art. 100
Electrical safety program
procedures,
identification
of, 110.5(G)
Elimination, 110.1
Lasers, 330.3, 330.5
Risk assessment, F.4
Electrically safe work
condition, Art. 120; see
also Lockout/tagout
For capacitors, 360.5, R.6.9,
R.13.1
Definition, Art. 100
Laboratory, 350.10
For lasers, 330.5(B)
Policy, inclusion of, 110.5(K)
Process for establishing and
verifying, 120.5
Temporary protective grounding
equipment, 120.5
Verification of, 120.4(B)(5),
120.5
Work involving electrical
hazards, 130.1
Electrical safety (definition), Art.
100
Electrical safety authority, 350.4
Electrical safety program, 110.5,
Annex E
Auditing, 110.5(M)
Awareness and self-
discipline, 110.5(D)
Contractors, relationship
with, 110.7
Controls, 110.5(F), E.2
Definition, Art. 100
Documentation of, 105.3(A),
110.5(A), 110.5(M)(4),
110.7(C)
General, 110.5(A)
Incident investigations, 110.5(J)
Inspection, 110.5(B)
Job briefing, 110.5(I)
Maintenance, 110.9(C)
Principles, 110.5(E), E.1
Procedures, 110.5(G), E.3
Risk assessment
procedure, 110.5(H),
Annex F
Electrolyte (definition), 320.2
Electrolyte hazards, storage
battery, 320.3(B)(1)
Electrolytic cell, Art. 310
Auxiliary nonelectric
connections, 310.6(B)
Employee training, 310.3, 310.4,
310.5(D)(6)
Electrolytic cell line working zone
Attachments, 310.5(D)(10)
Cranes and hoists, 310.5(D)(9)
Employee safeguards, 310.5,
Annex L
Employee training, 310.3,
310.4(A), 310(4)(B)(2),
310.5(D)(6)
Portable equipment and tools,
use of, 310.6
Elevated equipment, 130.9(F)(1)
Emergency response, training
in, 110.6(C)
Employees
Electrical safety program, 110.5
Lockout/tagout
procedure, 120.1,
120.2(A), 120.4
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INDEX
2021 Edition    ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–109
Responsibilities, 105.3(B),
130.9(D)
Lasers, 330.6
Power electronic
equipment, 340.5(B)
Special equipment, 300.2
Safeguarding,  see Safeguarding
Training,  see Training,
employees
Employers
Electrical safety program, 110.5
Responsibilities, 105.3(A), 120.4
Host and contract
employers, 110.7
Lockout/tagout
procedure, 120.1
Power electronic
equipment, 340.5(A)
Safety-related design
requirements, Annex O
Special equipment, 300.2
Uninsulated overhead lines,
work on or
near, 130.9(D)
Enclosed (definition), Art. 100
Enclosures
Definition, Art. 100
Maintenance of, 205.6, 205.7,
210.1, 210.2
Energized
Definition, Art. 100
Electrical conductors or
circuit,  see Working on
energized electrical
conductors or circuit
Electrolytic cells,  see Electrolytic
cell; Electrolytic cell line
working zone
Lasers, testing of, 330.5(C)
Energized electrical work
permit, 130.2(B),
Annex J
Energy thresholds,
laboratory, 350.9
Equipment,  see also specific
equipment
Arc-resistant, 0.2.4, 130.5(C),
130.7(C)(15)
Definition, Art. 100
Batteries, for work on, 320.3(C)
Definition, Art. 100
Grounding
Portable equipment within
energized cell line
working zone, 310.6(A)
Vehicle or mechanical
equipment, 130.9(F)(3)
Grounding-type, 110.9(B)
Overhead,  see Overhead lines
and equipment
Spaces about, maintenance
of, 205.5, 205.9
Special,  see Special equipment
Use of, 110.8
Equipment grounding conductors
(EGC), 110.9(B)
Definition, Art. 100
Explanatory material, 90.4
Exposed (as applied to energized
electrical conductors or
circuit parts), 105.1,
120.4(A)(2),
120.4(B)(6), 130.2
Definition, Art. 100
Safe work practices,  see Working
on energized electrical
conductors or circuit;
Work practices, safety-
related
Exposed (as applied to wiring
methods)
(definition), Art. 100
Extension cords,  see Flexible cord
sets
Eye wash apparatus, 240.2
-F-
Fault current,  see also Short circuit
current
Available, 130.7(C)(15), 210.3,
210.5
Definition, Art. 100
Definition, Art. 100
Fiberglass-reinforced plastic
rods, 130.7(D)(1)
Fiber or flyings,
combustible, 130.8(J)
Field evaluated, 330.5(E), 350.2,
350.6
Definition, 330.2
Field work audit, 110.5(M)(2)
Fittings (definition), Art. 100
Flame arresters, battery
cell, 320.3(D)
Flammable gases, 130.8(J)
Flammable liquids, 130.8(J)
Flexible cords and cables
Grounding-type utilization
equipment, 110.9(B)
Handling, 110.9(A)
Maintenance of, 205.14
Flexible cord sets, 110.9
Connecting attachment
plugs, 110.9(C),
110.9(E)
Visual inspection, 110.9(C)
Formal interpretation
procedures, 90.5
Fuses, 130.8(L), 130.8(M)
Current-limiting fuses,
calculating arc-flash
energies for use with, 
D.2.1
Definition, Art. 100
Fuse or fuse-holding handling
equipment, 130.7(D)(1)
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, 225.1
-G-
Gases, flammable, 130.8(J)
Ground (definition), Art. 100
Grounded (grounding), 
120.4(B)(2)
Capacitors, 360.4(B), 360.6,
R.11, R.13.2
Definition, Art. 100
Equipment
Portable equipment within
energized cell line
working zone, 310.6(A)
Vehicle or mechanical
equipment, 130.9(F)(3)
Lockout/tagout
procedures, 120.4(B)(7)
Maintenance of, 205.6
Safety grounding equipment,
maintenance of, 250.3
Solidly grounded
(definition), Art. 100
Grounded conductors
(definition), Art. 100
Ground fault (definition), Art. 100
Ground-fault circuit-interrupters
(GFCIs), 110.9(D),
110.10
Definition, Art. 100
Testing, 110.10(D)
Grounding conductors, equipment
(EGC), 110.9(B)
Definition, Art. 100
Grounding electrode
(definition), Art. 100
Grounding electrode conductors
(definition), Art. 100
Grounding-type
equipment, 110.9(B)
Ground sticks, 360.6, R.6.8, R.11.6,
R.11.8, R.11.10, R.16
Definition, 360.2
Guarded, 205.7; see also Barriers;
Enclosures
Definition, Art. 100
Lasers, 330.5(A)
Rotating equipment, 230.2
Uninsulated overhead
lines, 130.9(C), 130.9(D)
-H-
Handlines, 130.7(D)(1)
Hard grounding (Low-
Z), 360.5(B),
R.6.8, R.11.1, R.11.3,
R.11.6, R.11.9
Definition, 360.2
Hazard (definition), Art. 100; see
also Electrical hazard
Hazardous (definition), Art. 100
Hazardous (classified) locations,
maintenance
requirements for, Art.
235
Hazard warning labeling, R.6.10,
R.15
Hearing protection boundary
Definition, 360.2
Hinged panels, secured, 130.8(G)
Hoists, 310.5(D)(9)
Human performance and
workplace electrical
safety, Annex Q
-I-
Identified/identification
Equipment, field marking
of, 130.5(H)
Laboratory, unlisted equipment
for, 350.7(A)
Maintenance of
identification, 205.10
Temporary protective grounding
equipment, 120.5
Illumination
Battery rooms, 320.3(A)(3)
Working on energized electrical
conductors or
circuits, 130.8(C)
Implanted pacemakers and
metallic medical
devices, 310.5(D)(11)
Incident energy
Calculation methods, Annex D,
R.9
Definition, Art. 100
Equipment, labeling
of, 130.5(H)
Reducing, O.2.3
Incident energy analysis, 130.5(F),
130.5(G), 130.7(C)(15)
Definition, Art. 100
Incident investigations, 110.5(J)
Informative publications, Annex A
Inspection
Electrical safety
program, 110.8(D),
110.9(C)
Visual
Capacitors, ground sticks
for, 360.6(A), R.16.4
Cord- and plug-connected
equipment, 110.9(C)
Electrical hazards, work
involving, 130.2(C),
130.7(B)
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–110
ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE    2021 Edition
Return to service after
lockout/tagout, 
120.4(B)(13)
Safety and protective
equipment, 130.7(B),
250.2(A)
Safety grounding
equipment, 250.3(A)
Test instruments and
equipment, 110.8(D)
Insulated (definition), Art. 100
Insulated conductors,
maintenance of, 210.4
Insulated tools and
equipment, 110.6(A)(1),
130.7(D)(1), C.1.2.3
Insulating floor surface, L.1
Insulation, electrolytic
cells, 310.5(D)(1)
Insulation rating, overhead
lines, 130.9(B)
Interlocks
Circuit, 120.2(D)
Safety, 130.8(N), 205.8
Interrupter switch
(definition), Art. 100
Interrupting rating
(definition), Art. 100
Investigations, incident, 110.5(J)
Isolated (as applied to location)
Definition, Art. 100
Electrolytic cells, 310.5(D)(5)
Isolating switches
Definition, Art. 100
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
-J-
Job briefing, 110.5(I), 130.2(B),
350.5(A), R.13.2
Checklist, Annex I
-L-
Labeled (definition), Art. 100
Labeling of equipment, 130.5(H),
R.6.10
Laboratory
Approval requirements, 350.6
Custom built unlisted
equipment
Greater than 1000 volts, 350.8
1000 volts or less, 350.7
Definitions, 350.2
Electrical safety authority, 350.4
Energy thresholds, 350.9
Safety-related work
requirements, Art. 350
Lasers
Definition, 330.2
Energy source
(definition), 330.2
Radiation 
(definition), 330.2
System (definition), 330.2
Work practices, safety-
related, Art. 330
Responsibility for, 330.6
Safeguarding persons in
operating area, 330.5
Training, 330.4
Limited approach boundary,  see
Boundary, limited
approach
Listed
Definition, Art. 100
Lasers, 330.5(E)
Research and development
laboratory equipment or
systems, 350.6
Live parts
Guarding of,  see Guarded
Safe work conditions,  see
Electrical safety program;
Working on energized
electrical conductors or
circuit; Work practices,
safety-related
Lockout/tagout
Accountability for
personnel, 120.4(B)(10)
Audit, program and
procedure, 110.5(M)(3)
Capacitors, 360.5(B), R.13.2
Control, elements of, 120.4(B)
Control devices, use of, 120.2(E)
Control of energy, 120.2(C)
Coordination, 120.2(G),
120.4(B)(9)
Equipment, 120.3
Grounding, 120.4(B)(7)
Hazardous electrical energy
control, forms
of, 120.2(H); see also
Complex lockout/tagout
procedure; Simple
lockout/tagout
procedure
Identification of
devices, 120.2(F)
Maintenance of devices, 205.8
Person in charge, 120.2(H),
120.4(A)(3),
120.4(A)(5)
Plans for, 120.4(A)
Principles, 120.2
Procedures, 120.2(B), 120.2(G),
120.4, 120.5, Annex G
Programs, 110.5(L),
110.5(M)(3), 120.1
Release
For return to service, 
120.4(B)(13)
Temporary, 120.4(B)(14)
Removal of devices, 
120.4(B)(12)
Responsibility, 120.1, 120.4
Shift change, 120.4(B)(8)
Testing, 120.4(B)(6)
Training, 110.6(B)
Luminaires (definition), Art. 100
Lung protection
boundary, 360.4(B),
R.6.5, R.6.6, R.9.2,
R.10.3, R.11.7
Definition, 360.2
-M-
Maintenance, condition
of, 110.5(C)
Definition, Art. 100
Maintenance requirements, 
Chap. 2, 110.5(C)
Batteries and battery rooms, 
Art. 240
Controller equipment, Art. 220
Fuses and circuit breakers, 
Art. 225
General, Art. 205
Hazardous (classified)
locations, Art. 235
Introduction, Art. 200
Laboratory, unlisted equipment
for, 350.7(B)
Personal safety and protective
equipment, Art. 250
Portable electric tools and
equipment, Art. 245
Premises wiring, Art. 215
Rotating equipment, Art. 230
Substation, switchgear
assemblies, switchboards,
panelboards, motor
control centers, and
disconnect switches, 
Art. 210
Mandatory rules, 90.4
Marking,  see Identified/
identification
Mechanical equipment, working
on or near uninsulated
overhead lines, 130.9(F)
Motor control centers
Definition, Art. 100
Personal protective equipment
required for
tasks, 130.7(C)(15)
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
Multi-employer
relationship, 120.4(A)(5)
-N-
Nominal voltage
(definition), 320.2
Nonelectric equipment
connections, electrolytic
cell line, 310.6(B)
-O-
Occupational health and safety
management standards,
alignment with, Annex P
Open wiring protection, 215.2
Outdoors, GFCI
protection, 110.10(C)
Outlets (definition), Art. 100
Overcurrent (definition), Art. 100
Overcurrent protection
Arc flash risk
assessment, 130.5(B)
Maintenance of devices, 205.4,
210.5
Modification, 110.11
Overhead lines and
equipment, 120.3(D)(5)
Clearances, maintenance
of, 205.15
Industrial procedures and
policies for working near
overhead systems,
example of, Annex N
Insulation rating, 130.9(B)
Working within limited
approach boundary of
uninsulated, 130.9
Overload (definition), Art. 100
-P-
Pacemakers, implanted, 
310.5(D)(11)
Panelboards
Definition, Art. 100
Personal protective equipment
required for
tasks, 130.7(C)(15)
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
Permissive rules, 90.4
Personal protective equipment
(PPE), 130.2(B),
130.2(C), 130.10, 130.11,
L.1; see also Protective
clothing
Arc flash protection,  see Arc
flash protective
equipment
Batteries and battery
rooms, 320.3(A)(6),
320.3(B)(1)
Body protection, 130.7(C)(6)
Capacitors, 360.4(B), 360.5(B)
Care of, 130.7(B)
Electrical equipment labeling
for, 130.5(H)
Eye protection, 130.7(C)(4)
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INDEX
2021 Edition    ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–111
Foot and leg
protection, 130.7(C)(8)
Hand and arm
protection, 130.7(C)(7)
Head, face, neck, and chin
protection, 130.7(C)(3)
Hearing protection, 130.7(C)(5)
Maintenance, Art. 250
Required for various
tasks, 130.7(C)(15)
Safeguarding of employees in
electrolytic cell line
working zone, 
310.5(C)(1),
310.5(D)(2)
Selection of, 130.7(C)(15),
Annex H
Shock protection, 130.4(A),
130.4(C), 130.7, C.1.1,
R.7.1, R.7.2
Standards for, 130.7(C)(14)
Pilot cell (definition), 320.2
Planning checklist, Annex I
Portable electric equipment, 110.9
Conductive or wet work
locations, 110.9(D)
Connecting attachment
plugs, 110.9(C),
110.9(E)
Electrolytic cells, 310.6(A), L.2
Grounding-type, 110.9(B)
Handling and storage, 110.9(A)
Manufacturer's
instructions, 110.9(F)
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 245
Visual inspection, 110.9(C)
Power electronic equipment,
safety-related work
practices, Art. 340
Definitions, 340.2
Hazards associated with, 340.4
Specific measures, 340.5
Power supply
Cell line working area, L.2
Portable electric equipment,
circuits for, 310.6(A)
Premises wiring (system)
Definition, Art. 100
Maintenance of, Art. 215
Prohibited approach
boundary,  see Boundary
Prospective fault current
(definition), 320.2
Protective barriers, 130.7(D)(2),
130.8(F), 250.1,
330.5(D)
Definition, 330.2
Protective clothing, 130.7(C), L.1
Arc flash protection, 
130.7(C)(9), 130.7(C)
(10), 130.7(C)(13),
130.7(C)(15), C.1.1,
Annex H
Care and maintenance, 
130.7(C)(13)
Characteristics, 130.7(C)(11)
Layering of, M.1, M.2
Prohibited clothing, 
130.7(C)(12)
Selection of, 130.7(C)(9),
Annex H
Total system arc rating, M.3
Protective equipment, 130.7,
130.9(D), 130.9(F)(2)
Alerting techniques, 130.7(E)
Arc flash protection,  see Arc
flash protective
equipment
Barricades, 130.7(E)(2)
Barriers,  see Barriers
Batteries, maintenance
of, 320.3(A)(6)
Care of equipment, 130.7(B)
Insulated tools, 130.7(D)(1)
Look-alike equipment, 130.7(F)
Maintenance, Art. 250
Nonconductive
ladders, 130.7(D)(1)
Personal,  see Personal protective
equipment (PPE)
Reclosing circuits after
protective device
operation, 130.8(M)
Rubber insulating
equipment, 130.7(D)(2)
Safety signs and tags, 
130.7(E)(1)
Shock protection, 130.4(C),
130.7, C.1.1
Standards for, 130.7(G)
Voltage-rated plastic guard
equipment, 130.7(D)(2)
Purpose of standard, 90.1
-Q-
Qualified persons, 130.2(C)
Approach distances, 
130.4(F)(3), 130.4(G),
C.1.1, C.1.2
Capacitors, R.14.3, R.16.1
Safe work practices
for, 360.5(B), R.13.2
Training for, 360.4(A), R.2.1
Definition, Art. 100
Electrical safety authority, 350.4
Electrolytic cells, training
for, 4(B)(2), 310,
310.4(A)
Lockout/tagout
procedures, 120.2(H),
120.4(A)(4),
120.4(B)(14)
Maintenance, performance
of, 205.1
Overhead lines, determining
insulation rating
of, 130.9(B)
Training of, 110.6(A)(1)
For capacitors, 360.4(A), R.2.1
For electrolytic cells, 4(B)(2),
310, 310.4(A)
-R-
Raceways
Definition, Art. 100
Maintenance, 215.3
Radiation worker
(definition), 340.2
Receptacles
Definition, Art. 100
Electrolytic cell lines, L.2
Maintenance, 245.1
Portable electric
equipment, 110.9(B),
110.9(C), 110.9(E)
Research and development
Definition, 350.2
Safety-related work requirements
for laboratories, Art. 350
Restricted approach boundary,  see
Boundary, restricted
approach
Risk
Control, 110.1, F.3
Definition, Art. 100
Risk assessment
Arc flash, 130.2(B), 320.3(A)(2)
Capacitors, 360.4(B), 360.5(A),
R.6
Definition, Art. 100
Hazard-based, F.4
Methods, F.6
Procedure, 110.5(H), Annex F
Shock, 130.2(B), 130.4,
320.3(A)(2)
Task-based, F.5
Ropes, 130.7(D)(1)
Rules, mandatory and
permissive, 90.4
-S-
Safeguarding
In cell line working zone, 310.5,
Annex L
Definition, 310.2
In laser operating area, 330.5
Safety grounding equipment,
maintenance of, 250.3
Safety interlocks, 130.8(N), 205.8
Safety-related design
requirements, Annex O
Safety-related maintenance
requirements,  see
Maintenance
requirements
Safety-related work practices,  see
Work practices, safety-
related
Scope of standard, 90.2
Service drop (definition), Art. 100
Service lateral (definition), 
Art. 100
Service point (definition), Art. 100
Shock hazard, K.2
Battery room warning
signs, 320.3(A)(6)
Battery terminals, 320.3(A)(3)
Capacitors, R.3, R.7
Determination of hazard, R.6.3
Personal protective equipment
for, 360.4(B)
Definition, Art. 100
Protection from, 130.7,
360.4(B), C.1.1, O.2.4
Shock protection
boundaries, 130.4(E),
R.7
Shock risk assessment, 130.2(B),
130.4, 320.3(A)(2), O.2.4
Short circuit, O.2.3
Short-circuit current
Calculations, Annex D
Capacitors, R.4.3, R.10.1
Prospective, 320.3(A)(6)
Definition, 320.2
Rating (definition), Art. 100
Short-circuit hazard, R.4
Signs, electrolytic cell
areas, 310.5(B)
Simple lockout/tagout
procedure, 120.2(H),
120.4(A)(4), Annex G
Single-line diagram
Definition, Art. 100
Maintenance of, 205.2
Soft grounding (High-Z), 360.2,
360.6(B), R.6.8, R.11.1,
R.11.4, R.11.6, R.11.9
Special equipment, Chap. 3 see also
Batteries; Electrolytic
cell; Laser; Power
electronic equipment
Battery rooms
Definition, 320.2
Requirements, 320.3(3)
Organization, 300.3
Responsibility, 300.2
Special permission
(definition), Art. 100
Standard arrangement, 90.3
Step potential (definition), 
Art. 100
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–112
ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE    2021 Edition
Stored energy, 120.4(B)(2), 120.5,
330.3(B), 360.4(B), R.6.9
Determining, R.6.4, R.8
Exposure to, R.6.2
Ground sticks, use of,  see
Ground sticks
Hazard thresholds, 360.3
Labeling of equipment, R.6.10,
R.15.1
Written discharge procedure, 
R.6.9
Structure (definition), Art. 100
Substations, safety-related
maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
Supervisory performance, Q.7.1,
Q.7.4, Q.8.3
Switchboards
Definition, Art. 100
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
Switches,  see also Switching devices
Disconnecting (or isolating)
switches (disconnector,
isolator),  see also
Disconnecting means
Definition, Art. 100
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
Isolating
Definition, Art. 100
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
Load-rated, 130.8(L)
Portable cutout type, 
310.5(D)(8)
Switchgear
Arc-resistant, 130.7(C)(15)
Metal-clad, 130.7(C)(15)
Definition, Art. 100
Metal-enclosed, 130.7(C)(15)
Definition, Art. 100
Personal protective equipment
required for
tasks, 130.7(C)(15)
Safety-related maintenance
requirements, Art. 210
Switching devices (definition), 
Art. 100; see also Circuit
breakers; Disconnecting
means; Switches
-T-
Tagout,  see Lockout/tagout
Temporary protective grounding
equipment, 120.5,
250.3(B)
Terminals, maintenance of, 230.1
Testing
Capacitors, 360.4(B), 360.6(B),
R.6.9, R.11, R.13.1,
R.13.2, R.16.5
De-energized parts, 120.4(B)(6),
120.5
Energized equipment, 130.2(C)
Equipment safeguards, 
310.5(D)(12)
Ground-fault circuit-
interrupters, 110.10(D)
Ground sticks, R.16.5
Lockout/tagout
procedure, 120.4(B)(6)
Personal protective
equipment, 310.5(D)(2)
Safety and protective equipment,
insulation of, 250.2(B)
Safety grounding
equipment, 250.3(B),
250.3(C)
Test instruments and
equipment, 110.8
Cell line working zone, 310.6(D)
Maintenance of, 250.4
Visual inspection, 110.8(D)
Thermal hazard, 320.3(A)(6),
360.4(B), R.4.1
Time constant, R.3.2, R.11.4, R.12
Definition, 360.2
Tools
Batteries, for work on, 320.3(C)
Electrolytic cells, safe work
practices, 310.5(D)(7),
310.6, L.2
Insulated, 110.6(A)(1),
130.7(D)(1), C.1.2.3
Laboratory equipment,
maintenance and
operation of, 350.7(B)
Touch potential (definition), 
Art. 100
Training, employees
Documentation, 110.6(C)(4)
Emergency responses, 110.6(C)
Laboratory equipment,
maintenance and
operation of, 350.7(B)
Lockout/tagout
practices, 120.1(A),
Annex G
Work practices, safety-
related, 105.3(A), 110.6,
110.7(B)(1), 310.3,
310.4, 310.5(D)(6),
330.4, 360.4(A), R.2
-U-
Underground electrical lines and
equipment, 130.10
Ungrounded (definition), Art. 100
Uninsulated overhead lines,
working within limited
approach boundary
of, 130.9(A)
Unqualified
 persons, 130.2(B)
Approach distances, 130.4(F),
130.9(E), C.1.1
Definition, Art. 100
Training of, 110.6(A)(2)
Capacitors, 360.4(A), R.2.2
Electrolytic cells, 310.4(B)
Utilization equipment
Definition, Art. 100
Grounding-type, 110.9(B)
-V-
Valve-regulated lead acid cell
(definition), 320.2
Vehicular equipment, working on
or near uninsulated
overhead lines, 130.9(F)
Ventilation, batteries, 240.1,
320.3(D)
Voltage
Capacitors, 360.4(B), R.8.4
(Of a circuit) (definition), 
Art. 100
Electrolytic cells, voltage
equalization, 
310.5(D)(4)
Equipment operating at less
than 50 volts, working on
energized, 110.4(C)
Lasers, 330.3(A)
Nominal (definition), Art. 100
VRLA (valve-regulated lead acid
cell) (definition), 320.2
-W-
Warning signs
Battery rooms and
enclosures, 320.3(A)(6)
Lasers, 330.5(D)
Maintenance of, 205.11
Welding machines, 310.6(C)
Wet work locations, 110.9(D)
Wiring, premises
Definition, Art. 100
Maintenance of, Art. 215
Working distance, 130.2(B),
130.5(H), 130.7(C)(15),
D.3.1, D.4.4
Definition, Art. 100
Working on energized electrical
conductors or circuit
parts, Art. 130; see also
Work practices, safety-
related
Alerting techniques, 130.7(E)
Alertness of personnel, 130.8(A)
Approach boundaries,  see
Boundary
Blind reaching by
employees, 130.8(B)
Conductive articles being
worn, 130.8(D)
Conductive materials, tools, and
equipment being
handled, 130.8(E)
Confined or enclosed work
spaces, 130.8(F)
De-energized state, infeasibility
of task in, 110.4(B)
Definition, Art. 100
Electrically safe working
conditions, 130.2
Energized electrical work
permit, 130.2(B)
Equipment operating at less
than 50 volts, 110.4(C)
Failure, anticipation of, 130.8(K)
Flash risk assessment, 130.5
Hazards, additional, 110.4(A)
Housekeeping duties, 130.8(I)
Illumination, 130.8(C)
Insulated tools and
equipment, 130.7(D)(1)
Normal operating
condition, 110.4(D)
Occasional use of flammable
materials, 130.8(J)
Opening and closing of circuits,
routine, 130.8(L)
Overhead lines, working within
limited approach
boundary of, 130.9
Portable ladders, 130.7(D)(1)
Protective shields, 130.8(F)
Reclosing circuits after
protective device
operation, 130.8(M)
Risk, increased, 110.4(A)
Working spaces
Clear spaces, 130.8(H), 205.9
Maintenance of, 205.5, 205.9
Work permit, energized
electrical, 130.2(B),
Annex J
Work practices, safety-
related, Chap. 1; see also
Electrically safe work
condition; Working on
energized electrical
conductors or circuit
Approach distances,  see
Approach distances
Batteries and battery rooms, 
Art. 320
Capacitors, 360.5(B)
Contractors, relationship
with, 110.7
De-energized equipment,  see
Electrically safe work
condition
Electrical safety program, 110.5
Electrolytic cells, Art. 310,
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


INDEX
2021 Edition    ELECTRICAL SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
70E–113
Annex L
General requirements, Art. 110
Lasers, Art. 330
Power electronic
equipment, Art. 340
Purpose, 105.2
Research and development
laboratories, Art. 350
Responsibility for, 105.3
Scope, 105.1
Special equipment,  see Special
equipment
Training
requirements, 105.3(A),
110.6, 110.7(B)(1)
Use of equipment, 110.8
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


Sequence of Events for the Standards 
Development Process
Once the current edition is published, a Standard is opened for 
Public Input.
Step 1 – Input Stage
•   Input accepted from the public or other committees for 
consideration to develop the First Draft
•   Technical Committee holds First Draft Meeting to revise 
Standard (23 weeks); Technical Committee(s) with Cor-
relating Committee (10 weeks)
•   Technical Committee ballots on First Draft (12 weeks);
   Technical Committee(s) with Correlating Committee 
(11 weeks)
•   Correlating Committee First Draft Meeting (9 weeks)
•   Correlating Committee ballots on First Draft (5 weeks)
•   First Draft Report posted on the document information 
page
Step 2 – Comment Stage
•   Public Comments accepted on First Draft (10 weeks) fol-
lowing posting of First Draft Report
•   If Standard does not receive Public Comments and the 
Technical Committee chooses not to hold a Second Draft 
meeting, the Standard becomes a Consent Standard and 
is sent directly to the Standards Council for issuance (see 
Step 4) or
•   Technical Committee holds Second Draft Meeting 
(21 weeks); Technical Committee(s) with Correlating 
Committee (7 weeks)
•  Technical Committee ballots on Second Draft (11 weeks);
   Technical Committee(s) with Correlating Committee 
(10 weeks)
•   Correlating Committee Second Draft Meeting (9 weeks)
•   Correlating Committee ballots on Second Draft  
(8 weeks)
•   Second Draft Report posted on the document informa-
tion page
Step 3 – NFPA Technical Meeting
•   Notice of Intent to Make a Motion (NITMAM) accepted 
(5 weeks) following the posting of Second Draft Report
•   NITMAMs are reviewed and valid motions are certified 
by the Motions Committee for presentation at the NFPA 
Technical Meeting
•   NFPA membership meets each June at the NFPA Techni-
cal Meeting to act on Standards with “Certified Amend-
ing Motions” (certified NITMAMs)
•   Committee(s) vote on any successful amendments to the 
Technical Committee Reports made by the NFPA mem-
bership at the NFPA Technical Meeting
Step 4 – Council Appeals and Issuance of Standard
•   Notification of intent to file an appeal to the Standards 
Council on Technical Meeting action must be filed within 
20 days of the NFPA Technical Meeting
•   Standards Council decides, based on all evidence, 
whether to issue the standard or to take other action
Notes:
1. Time periods are approximate; refer to published sched-
ules for actual dates.
2. Annual revision cycle documents with certified amend-
ing motions take approximately 101 weeks to complete.
3. Fall revision cycle documents receiving certified amend-
ing motions take approximately 141 weeks to complete.
Committee Membership 
Classifications
1,2,3,4
The following classifications apply to Committee members 
and represent their principal interest in the activity of the 
Committee.
1.  M  Manufacturer: A representative of a maker or mar-
keter of a product, assembly, or system, or portion 
thereof, that is affected by the standard.
2.  U  User: A representative of an entity that is subject to 
the provisions of the standard or that voluntarily 
uses the standard.
3.  IM  Installer/Maintainer: A representative of an entity that 
is in the business of installing or maintaining a prod-
uct, assembly, or system affected by the standard.
4.  L  Labor: A labor representative or employee concerned 
with safety in the workplace.
5.  RT  Applied Research/Testing Laboratory: A representative 
of an independent testing laboratory or indepen-
dent applied research organization that promulgates 
and/or enforces standards.
6.  E  Enforcing Authority: A representative of an agency or 
an organization that promulgates and/or enforces 
standards.
7.  I  Insurance: A representative of an insurance company, 
broker, agent, bureau, or inspection agency.
8. C  Consumer: A person who is or represents the ultimate 
purchaser of a product, system, or service affected by 
the standard, but who is not included in (2).
9.  SE  Special Expert: A person not representing (1) through 
(8) and who has special expertise in the scope of the 
standard or portion thereof.
NOTE 1: “Standard” connotes code, standard, recom-
mended practice, or guide.
NOTE 2: A representative includes an employee.
NOTE 3: While these classifications will be used by the 
Standards Council to achieve a balance for Technical Com-
mittees, the Standards Council may determine that new 
classifications of member or unique interests need repre-
sentation in order to foster the best possible Committee 
deliberations on any project. In this connection, the Stan-
dards Council may make such appointments as it deems 
appropriate in the public interest, such as the classification 
of “Utilities” in the National Electrical Code Committee.
NOTE 4: Representatives of subsidiaries of any group are 
generally considered to have the same classification as the 
parent organization.
 
6/16-A
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


Submitting Public Input / Public Comment Through the Online Submission System 
Following publication of the current edition of an NFPA standard, the development of the next edition 
begins and the standard is open for Public Input.
Submit a Public Input 
NFPA accepts Public Input on documents through our online submission system at www.nfpa.org. To use 
the online submission system:
• Choose a document from the List of NFPA codes & standards or filter by Development Stage for  
“codes accepting public input.” 
• Once you are on the document page, select the “Next Edition” tab.
• Choose the link “The next edition of this standard is now open for Public Input.” You will be asked 
to sign in or create a free online account with NFPA before using this system.
• Follow the online instructions to submit your Public Input (see www.nfpa.org/publicinput for de-
tailed instructions).
• Once a Public Input is saved or submitted in the system, it can be located on the “My Profile” page 
by selecting the “My Public Inputs/Comments/NITMAMs” section.
Submit a Public Comment 
Once the First Draft Report becomes available there is a Public Comment period. Any objections or fur-
ther related changes to the content of the First Draft must be submitted at the Comment Stage. To sub-
mit a Public Comment follow the same steps as previously explained for the submission of Public Input.
Other Resources Available on the Document Information Pages
Header: View document title and scope, access to our codes and standards or NFCSS subscription, and 
sign up to receive email alerts.
Research current and previous edition information.
Follow the committee’s progress in the processing of a standard in its next revision cycle.
View current committee rosters or apply to a committee.
For  members,  officials,  and  AHJs  to  submit  standards  questions  to  NFPA  staff.  Our  Technical  
Questions Service provides a convenient way to receive timely and consistent technical assistance 
when you need to know more about NFPA standards relevant to your work. 
Provides links to available articles and research and statistical reports related to our standards.
Discover and purchase the latest products and training.
View related publications, training, and other resources available for purchase.
4/19-B
Current & Prior 
Editions
Next Edition
Technical 
Committee
Ask a Technical 
Question
News
Purchase Products 
& Training
Related Products
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


Information on the NFPA Standards Development Process
I. Applicable Regulations. The primary rules governing the processing of NFPA standards (codes, standards, 
recommended practices, and guides) are the NFPA Regulations Governing the Development of NFPA Standards (Regs). Other 
applicable rules include NFPA Bylaws, NFPA Technical Meeting Convention Rules, NFPA Guide for the Conduct of Participants in 
the NFPA Standards Development Process, and the NFPA Regulations Governing Petitions to the Board of Directors from Decisions of 
the Standards Council. Most of these rules and regulations are contained in the NFPA Standards Directory. For copies of the 
Directory, contact Codes and Standards Administration at NFPA headquarters; all these documents are also available on the 
NFPA website at “www.nfpa.org/regs.” 
The following is general information on the NFPA process. All participants, however, should refer to the actual rules and 
regulations for a full understanding of this process and for the criteria that govern participation. 
II. Technical Committee Report. The Technical Committee Report is defined as “the Report of the responsible 
Committee(s), in accordance with the Regulations, in preparation of a new or revised NFPA Standard.” The Technical 
Committee Report is in two parts and consists of the First Draft Report and the Second Draft Report. (See Regs at  
Section 1.4.)
III. Step 1: First Draft Report. The First Draft Report is defined as “Part one of the Technical Committee Report, which 
documents the Input Stage.” The First Draft Report consists of the First Draft, Public Input, Committee Input, Committee 
and Correlating Committee Statements, Correlating Notes, and Ballot Statements. (See Regs at 4.2.5.2 and Section 4.3.) 
Any objection to an action in the First Draft Report must be raised through the filing of an appropriate Comment for 
consideration in the Second Draft Report or the objection will be considered resolved. [See Regs at 4.3.1(b).]
IV. Step 2: Second Draft Report. The Second Draft Report is defined as “Part two of the Technical Committee Report, 
which documents the Comment Stage.” The Second Draft Report consists of the Second Draft, Public Comments with 
corresponding Committee Actions and Committee Statements, Correlating Notes and their respective Committee 
Statements, Committee Comments, Correlating Revisions, and Ballot Statements. (See Regs at 4.2.5.2 and Section 4.4.) 
The First Draft Report and the Second Draft Report together constitute the Technical Committee Report. Any outstanding  
objection following the Second Draft Report must be raised through an appropriate Amending Motion at the NFPA 
Technical Meeting or the objection will be considered resolved. [See Regs at 4.4.1(b).]
V. Step 3a: Action at NFPA Technical Meeting. Following the publication of the Second Draft Report, there is a period 
during which those wishing to make proper Amending Motions on the Technical Committee Reports must signal their 
intention by submitting a Notice of Intent to Make a Motion (NITMAM). (See Regs at 4.5.2.) Standards that receive 
notice of proper Amending Motions (Certified Amending Motions) will be presented for action at the annual June NFPA 
Technical Meeting. At the meeting, the NFPA membership can consider and act on these Certified Amending Motions as 
well as Follow-up Amending Motions, that is, motions that become necessary as a result of a previous successful Amending 
Motion. (See 4.5.3.2 through 4.5.3.6 and Table 1, Columns 1-3 of Regs for a summary of the available Amending Motions 
and who may make them.) Any outstanding objection following action at an NFPA Technical Meeting (and any further 
Technical Committee consideration following successful Amending Motions, see Regs at 4.5.3.7 through 4.6.5) must be 
raised through an appeal to the Standards Council or it will be considered to be resolved. 
VI. Step 3b: Documents Forwarded Directly to the Council. Where no NITMAM is received and certified in accordance 
with the Technical Meeting Convention Rules, the standard is forwarded directly to the Standards Council for action on 
issuance. Objections are deemed to be resolved for these documents. (See Regs at 4.5.2.5.)
VII. Step 4a: Council Appeals. Anyone can appeal to the Standards Council concerning procedural or substantive matters 
related to the development, content, or issuance of any document of the NFPA or on matters within the purview of the 
authority of the Council, as established by the Bylaws and as determined by the Board of Directors. Such appeals must be in 
written form and filed with the Secretary of the Standards Council (see Regs at Section 1.6). Time constraints for filing an 
appeal must be in accordance with 1.6.2 of the Regs. Objections are deemed to be resolved if not pursued at this level. 
VIII. Step 4b: Document Issuance. The Standards Council is the issuer of all documents (see Article 8 of Bylaws). The 
Council acts on the issuance of a document presented for action at an NFPA Technical Meeting within 75 days from the 
date of the recommendation from the NFPA Technical Meeting, unless this period is extended by the Council (see Regs at 
4.7.2). For documents forwarded directly to the Standards Council, the Council acts on the issuance of the document at its 
next scheduled meeting, or at such other meeting as the Council may determine (see Regs at 4.5.2.5 and 4.7.4). 
IX. Petitions to the Board of Directors. The Standards Council has been delegated the responsibility for the 
administration of the codes and standards development process and the issuance of documents. However, where 
extraordinary circumstances requiring the intervention of the Board of Directors exist, the Board of Directors may take 
any action necessary to fulfill its obligations to preserve the integrity of the codes and standards development process 
and to protect the interests of the NFPA. The rules for petitioning the Board of Directors can be found in the Regulations 
Governing Petitions to the Board of Directors from Decisions of the Standards Council and in Section 1.7 of the Regs. 
X. For More Information. The program for the NFPA Technical Meeting (as well as the NFPA website as information 
becomes available) should be consulted for the date on which each report scheduled for consideration at the meeting will 
be presented. To view the First Draft Report and Second Draft Report as well as information on NFPA rules and for up-to-
date information on schedules and deadlines for processing NFPA documents, check the NFPA website (www.nfpa.org/
docinfo) or contact NFPA Codes & Standards Administration at (617) 984-7246. 
4/19-C
Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA


Copyright National Fire Protection Association 
Provided by IHS Markit under license with NFPA
