

Selling Buffy Podcasts
By: Aron Veraart



contact@buffymedia.com

+316 1829 6503

We are selling our podcast business as we are shifting our focus to 
a different venture. Our podcasts, which feature sleep sounds like 
rain and contain no spoken content, generate an average annual 
revenue of €50,000. The sounds are downloaded from Splice.com, 
and no recording is required.



The process involves minimal manual labor; the only task is to 
extend a one-minute sound file to an hour, a process known as 
‘looping’.



Our podcasts are hosted for free on Spreaker.com because we are 
a Prime partner. Our agency is the largest sleep podcast 
organization in the world with over 40 million downloads.



Managing these podcasts requires only 2 hours per week. They are 
primarily listened to by people suffering from depression or sleep 
issues. Since our podcasts continue to play while our listeners 
sleep, we attract more listeners for advertisements, resulting in high 
advertising revenue. In some months, we have earned up to 
€15,000 from advertising revenue.

Advertisers like McDonald’s, Unilever, and BMW have advertised on 
our podcasts. Additionally, we use programmatic ads that are 
inserted into each episode, with an average CPM of $5 per 
thousand listeners. Currently, we have 2 pre-rolls and 2 post-rolls 
active.



We are no longer selling advertisements and have ceased 
campaigns to promote the podcasts. Despite this, our podcasts 
consistently rank at the top of the podcast charts on Apple and 
Spotify globally.



We are looking for a serious buyer interested in acquiring our 
podcast business, which consists of four sleep podcasts.



Some ideas we once intended to develop, but never did, include 
launching a sleep app and producing meditation podcasts with AI 
voiceovers through ElevenLabs. Cross-promotion between 
podcasts has proven to be very effective.

ASMR Sleep Recordings 
https://open.spotify.com/show/1XRHRuE2Z4sWbEU0tGOYbJ



ASMR Rain Recordings 
https://open.spotify.com/show/0BRfO7Z1zvnWIvuMEjd8sk



ASMR Sleep 
https://open.spotify.com/show/1hNvMeEwkPzuaTuIWLM8iY



ASMR Sessions 
https://open.spotify.com/show/673bLsHJCXPV8bG2aXnqz1

Last 12 Months

2023

2022 (During Covid-19)