

Your Life, Your Legacy 
Protecting Your Financial Legacy 

 
 
 
The names and logo designs referred to in the sample artwork are fictional and not intended to refer to any actual organization, products or services. 
Introduction to Plans: 
Preserving Your Legacy with Bodéa
It is never too early or too late to start planning your legacy. We have the perfect life insurance plan for you to make it easy 
to start securing your family’s financial future.  
Bodéa offers life insurance plans to give you peace of mind over your family’s financial security in the future.
 
 
 
“Knowing my family will be 
taken care of gives me a 
sense of calm and control.” 
-James Smith, Insured 

 
 
 
The names and logo designs referred to in the sample artwork are fictional and not intended to refer to any actual organization, products or services. 
Prime Plan 
The Bodéa Prime Plan is our most simple life insurance 
coverage, best recommended for coverage over a shorter 
period of time. With the Prime Plan, you pay a monthly or 
annual premium and your family is protected for that period of 
time. 
The Prime Plan is Bodéa’s most affordable life insurance plan 
and is perfect for those who are just beginning with their 
coverage. 
Prime Pricing 
10 years 20 years 30 years 
Starting at 
$13.00/mo 
Starting at 
$15.75/mo 
Starting at 
$20.50/mo 
$175 Annually $180.25 Annually $225 Annually 
$275,000 of 
Coverage 
$300,000 of 
Coverage 
$325,000 of 
Coverage 
 
 
10 Y
ears
 
• Ideal for those just beginning with life insurance 
• Can be renewed at the end of 10-year term 
• Renewal may be subject to terms & conditions 
20 Years 
• Ideal for those just beginning with life insurance 
• Can be renewed at the end of 10-year term 
• Renewal may be subject to terms & conditions 
30 Years 
• Ideal for those just beginning with life insurance 
• Can be renewed at the end of 10-year term 
• Renewal may be subject to terms & conditions 
 

 
 
 
The names and logo designs referred to in the sample artwork are fictional and not intended to refer to any actual organization, products or services. 
Plus Plan 
The Plus Plan gives great peace of mind as you make big 
decisions for your family and lifestyle and is designed for 
professionals who have a need to mitigate any unexpected 
turns in their family’s future. 
The Plus Plan gradually builds cash value over time. This wealth 
growth is deferred of taxes and the premium amount is locked 
in for life once the first payment is made. 
Plus Pricing 
Plus Plan A Plus Plan B Plus Plan C 
Starting at 
$14.60/mo 
Starting at 
$17.65/mo 
Starting at 
$23.00/mo 
$200 Annually $225 Annually $255 Annually 
$315,000 of 
Coverage 
$335,000 of 
Coverage 
$365,000 of 
Coverage 
 
 
Mortgage Assistance
 
Ensure that your family is not just protected,  
bu
t that their lifestyle is as well. Mortgage assistance  
is
 supplemental to each plan’s coverage amount,  
and subject to a wide range of mortgage amounts. 
Education Assistance 
Ensure the best future for developing minds,  
to make sure the unexpected does not compromise future prospects or 
possibilities for any family member of beneficiary. 
Supplemental Loss of Income 
In keeping with preserving the lifestyle and prospects your family has, all 
Plus Plans include a supplemental loss of income that scales as you grow 
your career. 
Platinum Plan 

 
 
 
The names and logo designs referred to in the sample artwork are fictional and not intended to refer to any actual organization, products or services. 
Bodéa’s Platinum Plan is the most flexible life insurance option 
available.  
With this plan, you decide the premium amount you want to 
pay into your account.  The policy will continue as long as there 
is sufficient funds in the life insurance account.  
Plan charges and premiums can be deducted from this account. 
In addition, withdrawals and loans may be made from this plan.  
Platinum Pricing 
Platinum A Platinum B Platinum C 
Starting at 
$13.50/mo 
Starting at 
$19.75/mo 
Starting at 
$25.75/mo 
$224 Annually $252 Annually $285 Annually 
$353,000 of 
Coverage 
$375,000 of 
Coverage 
$408,000 of 
Coverage 
 
 
Su
pplemental Loss of Income
 
In keeping with preserving the lifestyle and prospects your 
family has, all Plus Plans include a supplemental loss of income 
that scales as you grow your career.
 
Access to Cash Value of Policy 
Flexibly access cash against the value of your account at any time with 
any Platinum Plan from Bodéa, without canceling your policy.  
Future Planning Guidance 
Get real-time consultations with Platinum Plans through Bodéa’s award-
winning consultative service. 
 
 

 
 
 
The names and logo designs referred to in the sample artwork are fictional and not intended to refer to any actual organization, products or services. 
Supplemental Plans 
In the event of the unexpected, Bodéa’s various life insurance 
policies help make sure family has financial security in the 
future with a cash payout from Bodéa.  
The payout is determined by your coverage amount and the 
amount you contribute to this account may be based on your 
annual earnings.  
Based on the terms of your existing life insurance plan, you may 
qualify to add on a supplemental benefit to your policy. This 
can help you receive additional amounts of coverage for added 
peace of mind and security. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
The names and logo designs referred to in the sample artwork are fictional and not intended to refer to any actual organization, products or services. 
Common Questions 
How much life insurance do I need? 
Ultimately the level of life insurance policy you decide on is up to you. Contact a Bodéa representative at 1-800-555-5555 for help 
choosing a plan. 
 
Who can be the beneficiary for my plan? 
This person(s) or can be anybody close to you that you wish to be financially protected in the event of your death. Your estate may also be 
named your beneficiary. 
 
Can I bundle my insurance policies? 
You may bundle your life insurance policy with any of Bodéa’s insurance plans. Please contact a representative to assist you.  
How quickly do claims get paid out? 
After you file a claim, it typically takes 10-12 business days to pay the life insurance to the listed dependent. If the death was accident 
related, longer periods may be expected. Please contact a representative for more detailed information. 
 
Still not sure which plan is right for you? 
Contact us at 1-800-555-5555 