he 
year but that, given the examples provided in the proposed regulations, their 
interpretation was that any amount utilized as part of the section 38 limitation is allowed 
to offset estimated taxes during the taxable year; whereas the net elective payment 
amount is not allowed as a reduction to estimated taxes as it is deemed paid on the 
date the return is filed.  The revisions to proposed §1.6417-2(e)(2) in these final 
regulations, including the definition of net elective payment amount and the examples in 
§1.6417-2(e)(4), are intended to clarify that any amount utilized as part of the section 38 
limitation is allowed to reduce tax liability for purposes of determining any underpayment 
of estimated tax; whereas the net elective payment amount is not treated as reducing 
tax liability as it is deemed paid on the later of the due date of filing the return or the 
date the return is filed.
The proposed regulations addressed the interaction between the timing rule in 

section 6417(d)(4) and the denial of double benefit rule in section 6417(e).  In 
considering the comments in relation to timing of the payment, it is clear from section 
6417(d)(4) that the payment is considered made at the later of the due date of filing the 
tax return or the actual filing.  Further, rather than as suggested by most commenters, it 
is this timing rule and not the rules in proposed §1.6417-2(e)(2) and (3) (regarding 
ordering and use of the applicable credit) that creates the commenters’ issue related to 
penalties for underpayment of estimated taxes.  For example, if a taxpayer with a tax 
liability was solely relying on the elective payment amount to cover the tax liability, such 
taxpayer could receive a payment related to the applicable credit but could still incur an 
estimated tax penalty because section 6417(d)(4) explicitly states that the payment of 
tax occurs on the date on which such return is filed.  These final regulations do revise 
proposed §1.6417-2(e)(2), but the revisions continue to allow taxpayers the beneficial 
approach of the proposed regulations in this respect.  Under the revisions, if any of the 
applicable credits for which the election is being made are needed to reach the 
limitation under section 38(c), then those credits are treated as reducing tax liability as 
of the due date of the return (excluding extensions).  As one commenter stated, while 
the proposed rule does not eliminate the potential for an estimated tax penalty, the 
approach can mitigate the potential penalty by minimizing the amount of tax due on the 
return. The same result is achieved in these final regulations.  While commenters are 
suggesting it is possible to allow a payment as having been made at various times of 
the year, these comments contradict the timing of payment language in section 
6417(d)(4).  Thus, these final regulations do not adopt comments that suggested 
revisions to the rules in proposed §1.6417-2(e), but make clarifications in the examples 
that illustrate the application of those rules.
5. Partnership Elections
Proposed §1.6417-4(c) would provide rules for a partnership or S corporation 

that makes an election under section 6417(a) and proposed §1.6417-2(b) in accordance 
with the special rules for partnerships and S corporation under section 6417(c)(1)(A) 
through (D).  One commenter opined that the proposed regulations seem to allow a 
corporation making an elective payment election for section 45X credits determined 
during the year to reduce quarterly estimated taxes by including credits in its general 
business credit computation up to the section 38(c) limitation.  However, the commenter 
thought this was not the case for section 45X credits earned through a partnership, as 
the election and payment are made at the partnership level.  The commenter thought 
that, in the absence of quarterly elections and payments, the final regulations should 
provide a mechanism for corporate partners to reduce quarterly estimated taxes for 
applicable credits determined with respect to applicable credit property held through 
partnerships that will make elective payment elections; otherwise, the commenter 
thought it would be penalizing taxpayers that operate their businesses through 
partnerships, for example, as joint ventures.
The Treasury Department and the IRS note that the treatment of partners of a 
partnership (or shareholders of an S corporation) is different from the treatment of an 
applicable entity or electing taxpayer directly making the elective payment election.  
This is a result of the special rules for partnerships in section 6417(c)(1) that require an 
elective payment election for applicable credits determined with respect to any 
applicable credit property held directly by a partnership to be made by the partnership.  
An elective payment election made by a partnership is not reduced by the Federal tax 
liabilities of its partners.  Instead, it is only reduced by any partnership level Federal tax 
liability.  If partners were allowed to reduce their quarterly estimated taxes for applicable 
credits determined with respect to applicable credit property held by a partnership for 
which the partnership makes an elective payment election, then the amount of the 
elective payment made to the partnership should be reduced by the partners’ 

corresponding quarterly estimated tax liabilities.  Otherwise, the partners would receive 
a windfall because the same applicable credits would be used to both reduce the 
partners’ estimated tax payments and generate an elective payment to the partnership.  
Section 6417(c)(1) does not allow for such a mechanism.  Instead, section 
6417(c)(1)(C) provides that, if a partnership makes an elective payment election, any 
elective payment amount is treated as tax exempt income for purposes of section 705 
and a partner's distributive share of such tax exempt income is equal to such partner's 
distributive share of the otherwise applicable credit for each taxable year as determined 
under §1.704-1(b)(4)(ii).  As the elective payment election results in an applicable credit 
being treated as tax exempt income rather than as a credit, it is inappropriate to adopt a 
rule allowing the partners to treat the same amount as a credit for estimated tax 
purposes.  Thus, these final regulations do not adopt the commenter’s recommendation 
of a rule allowing corporate (or any other) partners to reduce quarterly estimated taxes 
for applicable credits determined with respect to applicable credit property held through 
partnerships that make elective payment elections.
6. Appeal and Litigation Rights
Several commenters asked whether the procedural guidelines outlined in 
subtitle F of the Code are applicable to elective payment elections in scenarios involving 
an audit or rejection by the IRS.  These commenters opined that, because section 6417 
treats an elective payment election as akin to an income tax payment, the procedures 
outlined in subtitle F of the Code should apply, and further, that the overpayment 
interest provisions of sections 6611 and 6621 should apply based on the payment dates 
described in section 6417(d)(4)(B) and in the proposed regulations.  The Treasury 
Department and the IRS note that section 6417 is located in chapter 65 of the Code, 
which relates to Abatements, Credits, and Refunds, which is in turn located under 
subtitle F of the Code.  Accordingly, subtitle F of the Code, which include provisions 

relating to overpayment interest, applies to elective payment elections under section 
6417.
Commenters requested that the final regulations confirm an applicable entity or 
electing taxpayer’s right to appeal an adverse determination by the IRS with respect to a 
determination regarding an elective payment election, and that deficiency procedures 
(including the right to petition the U.S. Tax Court) are applicable.  An applicable entity or 
electing taxpayer may challenge an adverse determination by the IRS with respect to an 
elective payment election if the denial of such election creates a tax deficiency, for 
which deficiency procedures apply, including the right to petition the U.S. Tax Court.  
For example, if an applicable entity or electing taxpayer claimed an elective payment 
amount for applicable credits that were subsequently disallowed by the IRS, then the 
applicable entity or electing taxpayer could protest the disallowance before the IRS 
Independent Office of Appeals (Appeals) and ultimately petition the U.S. Tax Court, if 
desired or appropriate.
Another commenter suggested that the IRS should be required to share with the 
taxpayer the reasons why the IRS has denied a credit.  The Treasury Department and 
the IRS intend for disallowances of an applicable credit under section 6417 to function 
the same as disallowances by the IRS for other credits or deductions.  In such 
situations, a taxpayer will be provided the basis for the disallowance.  Accordingly, this 
comment is not adopted.
One commenter stated that the proposed regulations designated the elective 
payment election as a “special enforcement matter” for purposes of the centralized 
partnership audit regime
9
 pursuant to section 6241(11) of the Code but provided no 
information about what audit rules apply in lieu of those partnership audit rules or why 
special enforcement is required to make an elective payment election.  Under section 
9
 Subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Code as amended by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA).

6241(11), in the case of partnership-related items involving special enforcement 
matters, the Secretary may prescribe regulations providing that the centralized 
partnership audit regime (or any portion thereof) does not apply to such items and that 
such items are subject to special rules as the Secretary determines to be necessary for 
the effective and efficient enforcement of the Code.  The Treasury Department and the 
IRS have determined that applying the special enforcement rules to the elective pay 
election is appropriate in order to prevent payments for invalid credits and avoid the 
need for audits at that stage.  The IRS uses the special enforcement rule to make an 
adjustment upon the determination of an ineffective election instead of following the 
audit procedures of the centralized partnership audit regime.  This special enforcement 
rule only applies to adjustments to the elective payment election and payment; any 
other adjustments that may be required later in time remain subject to the centralized 
partnership audit regime.
Another commenter stated that it would be helpful to specify what, if any, audit 
process would apply to tax-exempt or governmental entities that do not normally file tax 
returns or pay taxes.  This commenter stated that the pre-registration certification 
process will go a long way toward preventing fraud associated with these projects and 
thus recommended that the Treasury Department and the IRS identify a category of 
smaller projects that could be excluded from, or subjected to, a simplified audit process.  
The Treasury Department and the IRS expect that tax-exempt or governmental entities 
that do not ordinarily file tax returns or pay tax would be subject to the same 
examination process and procedures as other entities that have historically had a filing 
obligation.  Any changes to such procedures, including a simplified audit process, are 
outside the scope of these final regulations, but may be considered in future guidance.
III. Elective Payment Election by Electing Taxpayers
Section 6417(d)(1)(B) through (D) provides that an electing taxpayer (that is, a 

person other than an applicable entity described in section 6417(d)(1)(A)) that, with 
respect to any taxable year, places in service applicable credit property that qualifies for 
a section 45V credit or a section 45Q credit, or, with respect to any taxable year in 
which such taxpayer has, after December 31, 2022, produced eligible components (as 
defined in section 45X(c)(1)), respectively, may elect to be treated as an applicable 
entity for purposes of section 6417 for such taxable year, but only with respect to the 
aforementioned applicable credit property and only with respect to a section 45V credit, 
section 45Q credit, or section 45X credit, respectively.
The special rules for electing taxpayers are found in section 6417(d)(1) and (3).  
Proposed §1.6417-3 would have combined these rules for clarity, and these final 
regulations adopt proposed §1.6417-3 with minor changes noted in this part III of the 
Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions.
Proposed §1.6417-3(b), (c), and (d) would have provided the specific rules 
regarding the election under section 6417(d)(1)(B) through (D).  Proposed §1.6417-3(e) 
would have provided the rules relating to the election for electing taxpayers.  As 
described in part IV of this Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions, 
proposed §1.6417-4 would have provided additional rules for electing taxpayers that are 
partnerships or S corporations.
A. Qualified clean hydrogen production facility (section 45V)
Proposed §1.6417-3(b) would have provided that an electing taxpayer that has 
placed in service a qualified clean hydrogen production facility, as defined in section 
45V(c)(3), during the taxable year may make an elective payment election for such 
taxable year (or by August 16, 2023, in the case of facilities placed in service before 
December 31, 2022), but only with respect to the qualified clean hydrogen production 
facility, only with respect to a section 45V credit, and only if the pre-filing registration 
process required by §1.6417-5T was properly completed.  An electing taxpayer that 

elects to treat qualified property that is part of a specified clean hydrogen production 
facility as energy property under section 48(a)(15) would not be able to make an 
elective payment election with respect to such facility.  No commenter addressed this 
provision, and these final regulations adopt it without change.
B. Carbon oxide sequestration (section 45Q)
Proposed §1.6417-3(c) would have provided that an electing taxpayer that has, 
after December 31, 2022, placed in service a single process train described in §1.45Q-
2(c)(3) at a qualified facility (as defined in section 45Q(d)) during the taxable year may 
make an elective payment election for such taxable year, but only with respect to the 
single process train, only with respect to a section 45Q credit, and only if the pre-filing 
registration process required by §1.6417-5T was properly completed.  
One commenter asked about registering multiple process trains that are part of a 
single facility under section 45Q.  The IRS will consider ways outside of these final 
regulations to make the pre-filing registration process more streamlined for entities 
doing multiple registrations.  Therefore, these final regulations adopt this provision 
without change.
C. Advanced manufacturing credit (section 45X)
Section 6417(d)(1)(D) provides that an electing taxpayer can make an election 
with respect to any taxable year in which such taxpayer has, after December 31, 2022, 
produced eligible components (as defined in section 45X(c)(1)), and section 
6417(d)(1)(D)(ii)(I) provides that the elective payment election applies to each of the 
four succeeding taxable years ending before January 1, 2033.  Proposed §1.6417-
2(a)(3)(v) and -3(d) would have clarified that an electing taxpayer that produces, after 
December 31, 2022, eligible components (as defined in section 45X(c)(1)) at an 
applicable credit property described in §1.6417-1(e)(7) (in other words, a facility that 
produces eligible components, as described in guidance under sections 48C and 45X) 

during the taxable year (whether the facility existed on or before, or after, December 31, 
2022) may make an elective payment election for such taxable year, but only with 
respect to the facility at which the eligible components are produced by the electing 
taxpayer in that year, only with respect to a section 45X credit, and only if the pre-filing 
registration process required by §1.6417-5T was properly completed. 
Commenters asked for clarifications regarding section 45X facilities (such as how 
to designate different parts as different facilities).  These comments are outside the 
scope of these final regulations; thus, these final regulations adopt this provision without 
change.
D. Electing taxpayer making an elective payment election
Proposed §1.6417-3(e) would have provided rules on how the electing taxpayer 
makes the elective payment election, as further described in this section.  
1. In General
Proposed §1.6417-3(e)(1) would have provided that, if an electing taxpayer 
makes an elective payment election under proposed §1.6417-2(b) with respect to any 
taxable year in which the electing taxpayer places in service a qualified clean hydrogen 
production facility for which a section 45V credit is determined, places in service a 
single process train at a qualified facility for which a section 45Q credit is determined, or 
produces, after December 31, 2022, eligible components (as defined in section 
45X(c)(1)) at a facility, respectively, the electing taxpayer will be treated as an 
applicable entity for purposes of making an elective payment election for such taxable 
year and during the election period described in proposed §1.6417-3(e)(3), but only with 
respect to the applicable credit property described in proposed §1.6417-1(e)(3), (5), or 
(7), respectively, that is the subject of the election.  The taxpayer would be required to 
otherwise meet all requirements to earn the credit in the electing year and in each 
succeeding year during the election period described in proposed §1.6417-3(e)(3).

No commenter addressed this rule, and these final regulations adopt this 
provision without change.
2. Election is Per Applicable Credit Property
Proposed §1.6417-3(e)(2) would have provided that the election must be made 
separately for each applicable credit property, which is, respectively, a qualified clean 
hydrogen production facility placed in service for which a section 45V credit is 
determined, a single process train placed in service at a qualified facility for which a 
section 45Q credit is determined, or a facility in which eligible components are produced 
for which a section 45X credit is determined.  An electing taxpayer may only make one 
election with respect to any specific applicable credit property.
A few commenters requested that the final regulations clarify whether it is 
possible to make a second 5-year elective payment election for the same applicable 
credit property, opining that section 6417 does not preclude a second 5-year election 
and that the language in proposed §1.6417-2(b)(4)(iii) is ambiguous.  The Treasury 
Department and the IRS have determined that it is more consistent with the statute to 
allow only one election per specific applicable credit property; thus, these final 
regulations continue to unambiguously provide that it is not possible to make an elective 
payment election for the same applicable credit property for a second 5-year period and 
§1.6417-2(b)(4)(iii) is adopted without change.
One commenter asked whether a change in ownership during the 5-year period 
would continue the 5-year period.  Although the comment was unclear, presumably, the 
commenter preferred the 5-year period to continue rather than beginning a new 5-year 
period or ending the old 5-year period.  The Treasury Department and the IRS note that 
proposed §1.6417-5(c)(4) would have provided that, if a facility previously registered for 
an elective payment election undergoes a change of ownership (incident to a corporate 
reorganization or an asset sale) such that the new owner has a different employer 

identification number (EIN) than the owner who obtained the original registration, the 
original owner would be required to amend the original registration to disassociate its 
EIN from the credit property and the new owner would be required to submit an original 
registration (or if the new owner previously registered other credit properties, must 
amend its original registration) to associate the new owner’s EIN with the previously 
registered credit property.  This provision was intended to provide that the previous 5-
year period would continue despite the change in ownership.  This is because it would 
be inappropriate to start a new 5-year period with respect to the same applicable credit 
property, while at the same time undesirable to cut short a 5-year period that had not 
yet ended.  These final regulations add a sentence to clarify this point.
3. Election Period
i. In general
Pursuant to section 6417(d)(1)(D)(ii)(I), (d)(3)(C)(i)(II)(aa), and 
(d)(3)(D)(i)(III)(aa), proposed §1.6417-3(e)(3)(i) would have provided that the elective 
payment election generally would apply for an election period consisting of the taxable 
year in which the election is made and each of the four succeeding taxable years that 
end before January 1, 2033.  Proposed §1.6417-3(e)(3)(i) also would have provided that 
the election period cannot be less than a taxable year but may be made for a taxable 
period of less than 12 months within the meaning of section 443 of the Code.
Several commenters thought the five-year period should start on the date 
equipment is placed in service and run for 60 months; for example, using an 
“annualization principle.”  Commenters stated that, unless the qualified facility or carbon 
capture equipment is placed in service on the first day of an electing taxpayer’s taxable 
year, the elective payment amount would not be commensurate with the credit that 
would be otherwise allowable under section 45Q(a)(3) and (4).  Commenters stated that 
this could incentivize taxpayers to delay placing projects in service until the first day of 

the following taxable year so as to make an elective payment election for the amount of 
applicable credit allowed for a full year, but that incentivizing such a delay is 
counterintuitive and seems misaligned with the original intent for permitting elective 
payment elections.
The Treasury Department and the IRS agree that such a result may seem 
counterintuitive but note that any other rule would be inconsistent with the statute.  For 
section 45V credits, the elective payment election is made for the taxable year the 
equipment or facility is placed in service (or by August 16, 2023, in the case of facilities 
placed in service before December 31, 2022) and the four succeeding taxable years 
with respect to such facility which end before January 1, 2033.
10
  For section 45Q 
credits, the elective payment election is made for the taxable year in which such 
taxpayer has, after December 31, 2022, placed in service carbon capture equipment at 
a qualified facility (as defined in section 45Q(d)), and the four subsequent taxable years 
with respect to such equipment which end before January 1, 2033.
11
  Because the 
statute is unambiguous with respect to which taxable years qualify for the election after 
an applicable credit property is placed in service, these final regulations adopt proposed 
§1.6417-3(e)(3)(i) without change.
One commenter suggested that a taxpayer should be able to file a short year tax 
return ending on the 60th month so that the taxpayer can make a transfer election under 
section 6418 for the remainder of the taxpayer’s taxable year following the 60th month.  
The Treasury Department and the IRS note that the rules for short year tax returns are 
found in section 443 and the regulations thereunder.  Among other things, adopting a 
short year if the taxpayer is still in existence would require approval by the IRS.  
Because the rules for short year returns are outside the scope of these final regulations, 
10
 See section 6417(d)(1)(B), 6417(d)(3)(D)(i)(II), and 6417(d)(3)(D)(i)(III)(aa).
11
 See section 6417(d)(1)(C) and 6417(d)(3)(C)(i)(II)(aa).

these final regulations do not adopt a special rule in response to the comment.
ii. Revocation
Proposed §1.6417-3(e)(3)(ii) would have provided that an electing taxpayer may, 
during a subsequent year of the election period, revoke the elective payment election 
with respect to an applicable credit property described in proposed §1.6417-1(e)(3), (5), 
or (7) in accordance with forms and instructions.  Any such revocation, if made, applies 
to the taxable year in which the revocation is made (which cannot be less than a taxable 
year but may be made for a taxable period of less than 12 months within the meaning of 
section 443 of the Code) and each subsequent taxable year within the election period.  
Any such revocation may not be subsequently revoked.
One commenter requested clarification that an elective payment election remains 
in effect even if an electing taxpayer does not make an election in a particular year, as 
long as the taxpayer does not affirmatively revoke the election.  As a clarification, unless 
otherwise provided in forms and instructions, the act of not making an elective payment 
election during the election period is not itself a revocation of the election.  Thus, for 
example, if an electing taxpayer makes an elective payment election in years 1 and 2 
but fails to make the election in year 3, then the electing taxpayer is still eligible to make 
the election in years 4 and 5 if the electing taxpayer so desires.  However, the Treasury 
Department and the IRS note that, as described in part III.4 of this Summary of 
Comments and Explanation of Revisions, the electing taxpayer is ineligible to make a 
transfer election under section 6418 while the section 6417 election period is still in 
effect.
4. No Transfer Election Under Section 6418(a) Permitted While an Elective 
Payment Election is in Effect
Pursuant to section 6417(d)(1)(D)(iii) (section 45X credit), (d)(3)(C)(ii) (section 
45Q credit), and (d)(3)(D)(ii) (section 45V credit), proposed §1.6417-3(e)(4) would have 
provided that an electing taxpayer could not make a transfer election under section 

6418(a) with respect to any applicable credit under proposed §1.6417-1(d)(3), (5), or (7) 
determined with respect to applicable credit property described in proposed §1.6417-
1(e)(3), (5), or (7) during the election period for that applicable credit property.  
However, if the election period is no longer in effect with respect to an applicable credit 
property, any credit determined with respect to such applicable credit property could be 
transferred pursuant to a transfer election under section 6418(a), as long as the 
taxpayer meets the requirements of section 6418 and the section 6418 regulations.
One commenter requested that the final regulations clarify that electing taxpayers 
described in section 6417(d)(1)(B) may make a section 6417 elective payment election 
for up to five years and then make a section 6418 transfer election for the remainder of 
the 12-year credit period provided for under section 45Q.  The Treasury Department 
and the IRS agree that this is permitted as long as the electing taxpayer complies with 
the requirements of sections 45Q, 6417, and 6418, and the respective regulations 
thereunder, but concluded that no clarification in these final regulations is necessary.
This commenter also requested clarification that electing taxpayers may forgo the 
elective payment election under section 6417 altogether and elect to transfer credits 
under section 6418 for the entire 12-year credit period provided for under section 45Q.  
The Treasury Department and the IRS agree that an electing taxpayer that does not 
elect to be treated as an applicable entity with respect to applicable credit property 
described in proposed §1.6417-1(e)(3), (5), or (7), respectively, is not subject to the 
rules of section 6417, and may make a section 6418 election for a credit determined 
with respect to the electing taxpayer under section 45Q, 45V, or 45X as long as the 
taxpayer meets the requirements of those sections and the respective regulations 
thereunder.
IV. Elective Payment Election for Partnerships and S Corporations
Section 6417(c)(1) provides that, in the case of any applicable credit determined 

with respect to any applicable credit property held directly by a partnership or 
S corporation, any election under section 6417(a) is made by such partnership or 
S corporation.  Section 6417(c)(1)(A) through (D) describes the treatment of an elective 
payment election made by a partnership or S corporation, and proposed §1.6417-4 
would have provided additional rules for electing taxpayers that are partnerships or 
S corporations. 
Proposed §1.6417-4(a) would have provided that, if an applicable credit is 
determined with respect to applicable credit property owned by a partnership or 
S corporation, the elective payment election must be made by the partnership or 
S corporation.  Proposed §1.6417-4(b) would have provided that, if an elective payment 
election is made with respect to applicable credit property pursuant to section 45Q, 45V, 
or 45X, such partnership or S corporation would be treated as an applicable entity for 
purposes of making such elective payment election.  Proposed §1.6417-4(c)(1) would 
have provided that, if such partnership or S corporation makes an elective payment 
election:  (1) the IRS will make a payment to such partnership or S corporation in the 
amount of the credit determined; (2) before determining a partner’s distributive share or 
shareholder’s pro rata share of any applicable credit, the applicable credit is reduced to 
zero; (3) any amount received with respect to such elective payment election is treated 
as tax exempt income; (4) a partner’s distributive share of such tax-exempt income is 
equal to such partner’s distributive share of the otherwise applicable credit; and (5) such 
tax exempt income is treated as received or accrued, including for purposes of sections 
705 and 1366, as of the date the applicable credit is determined.  Proposed §1.6417-
4(c)(2) would have provided that if a partnership (upper-tier partnership) receives from a 
lower tier partnership an allocation of tax exempt income pursuant to section 6417, the 
upper-tier partnership must determine its partners’ distributive shares of such tax 
exempt income in proportion to the partners’ distributive shares of the otherwise 

applicable credit.  Proposed §1.6417-4(c)(3) would have provided that such tax exempt 
income is treated as arising from an investment activity rather than the conduct of a 
trade or business and is therefore not treated as income from a passive activity under 
section 469.  Proposed §1.6417-4(d) would have provided that a partnership or S 
corporation must compute the amount of the applicable credit allowable as if an elective 
payment election were not made and without regard to the limitations in sections 38(b) 
and (c) and 469 because those provisions apply at the partner or S corporation 
shareholder level.  Additionally, because the only applicable credits with respect to 
which a partnership or S corporation may make an elective payment election are not 
investment credits under section 46, proposed §1.6417-4(d) would have provided that 
sections 49 and 50 do not apply to limit the amount of the applicable credits.  Because 
there were no comments related to the provisions described in this paragraph, the 
proposed regulations are adopted without change in these final regulations.
In connection with the implementation of section 6417, the proposed regulations 
would have added a sentence to §301.6241-1(a)(6)(iii) (regarding items or amounts with 
respect to a BBA Partnership) to provide that any chapter 1 tax that is the liability of the 
BBA Partnership is an item with respect to the BBA Partnership, regardless of whether 
that chapter 1 tax is required to be reflected or shown on the partnership return or 
required to be maintained in the BBA Partnership’s books and records.  The Treasury 
Department and the IRS did not receive any comments related to this change under 
§301.6241-1; consequently, the proposed rule is adopted without change in these final 
regulations.
V. Pre-filing Registration Requirements
Section 6417(d)(5) provides that as a condition of, and prior to, any amount being 
treated as a payment that is made by the taxpayer under section 6417(a) or any 
payment being made pursuant to section 6417(c), the Secretary may require such 

information or registration as the Secretary deems necessary or appropriate for 
purposes of preventing duplication, fraud, improper payments, or excessive payments.  
Proposed §1.6417-5 would have addressed these requirements by adding a pre-filing 
registration process, and §1.6417-5T (TD 9975), issued contemporaneously, put those 
rules into effect for taxable years ending on or after June 21, 2023.  Because these final 
regulations obsolete the temporary regulations, this part V discusses the proposed 
regulations rather than the temporary regulations, which are identical in content.
Proposed §1.6417-5(a)-(d) would have provided the mandatory pre-filing 
registration process that, except as provided in guidance, an applicable entity or 
electing taxpayer would be required to complete as a condition of, and prior to (1) any 
amount being treated as a payment against the tax imposed by subtitle A that is made 
by an applicable entity or electing taxpayer (other than a partnership or S corporation) 
under proposed §1.6417-2(a)(1)(i) or (a)(2)(i); or (2) any amount being paid to a 
partnership or S corporation pursuant to proposed §1.6417-2(a)(2)(ii).
Proposed §1.6417-5(a) would have provided an overview of the pre-filing 
registration process.  Proposed §1.6417-5(b) would have included the pre-filing 
registration requirements, including: (1) manner of pre-filing registration; (2) pre-filing 
registration and election for members of a consolidated group; (3) timing of pre-filing 
registration; (4) that each applicable credit property must have its own registration 
number; and (5) information required to complete the pre-filing registration process.  
Proposed §1.6417-5(c) would have provided rules related to the registration number, 
including: (1) general rules; (2) that the registration number is valid for only one taxable 
year; (3) renewing registration numbers; (4) amendment of previously submitted 
registration information if a change occurs before the registration number is used; and 
(5) that the registration number is required to be reported on the return for the taxable 
year of the elective payment election.  Proposed §1.6417-5(d) would have provided that 

the section applies to taxable years ending on or after date of publication of the final 
rule.
Some commenters stated the proposed rules related to pre-filing registration 
were too cumbersome.  For example, commenters noted that local governments have 
significantly limited resources and may, in some cases, require robust technical 
assistance or otherwise abandon these projects altogether.  One suggestion was to 
create a streamlined pre-filing registration process for projects that are less complex.  
Another was that the IRS establish a minimum credit threshold to relieve some 
applicants who are planning to claim lower credit amounts from the pre-filing registration 
requirements.
The Treasury Department and the IRS understand commenters’ concerns about 
the need for resources to complete the pre-filing registration process; however, pre-filing 
registration is necessary to help meet the government’s compelling interest to prevent 
fraud and duplication while also allowing for a more efficient processing and payment 
upon filing of the return.  The information requested is also information that an 
applicable entity should have available after having engaged in an activity for which an 
applicable credit is determined.  Further, for entities engaging in fewer projects, the pre-
filing registration process will be less complex.  For example, an applicable entity with 
one applicable credit property for which an applicable credit is determined during the 
taxable year will have a more streamlined registration process than will an applicable 
entity with multiple applicable credit properties for which multiple applicable credits are 
determined during the taxable year.  Finally, the IRS is committed to ongoing efforts to 
provide guidance to help applicable entities understand how to qualify for the underlying 
credits, the pre-filing registration requirements, and the elective payment election 
process, and these efforts should address the commenters’ concerns.  Thus, the 
Treasury Department and the IRS have concluded that these final regulations should 

adopt the pre-filing registration process as proposed.
Multiple commenters asked how long the pre-filing registration process is 
expected to take and what a taxpayer should do if the IRS does not timely issue a 
registration number.  Because the timeframe and procedures of the pre-filing 
registration process may be modified over time as both the IRS and taxpayers gain 
experience with it, these final regulations do not contain any such timeframe or 
procedure.  Instead, the Treasury Department and the IRS recommend that taxpayers 
with these sorts of questions consult the current version of Publication 5884, Inflation 
Reduction Act (IRA) and CHIPS Act of 2022 (CHIPS) Pre-Filing Registration Tool User 
Guide and Instructions, for the latest guidance on the pre-filing registration process.  As 
of February 2024, Publication 5884 states:
Even though registration is not possible prior to the beginning of the tax 
year in which the credit will be earned, the IRS recommends that 
taxpayers register as soon as reasonably practicable during the tax year. 
The current recommendation is to submit the pre-filing registration at least 
120 days prior to when the organization or entity plans to file its tax return. 
This should allow time for IRS review, and for the taxpayer to respond, if 
the IRS requires additional information before issuing the registration 
numbers.
One commenter recommended a safe harbor if the pre-filing registration was 
completed by the registrant within a certain time period prior to filing.  These final 
regulations do not adopt this suggestion because the timing of the submission is only 
one factor; the quality and accuracy of information of the provided information is also a 
factor.  Further, as the IRS and taxpayers gain experience with the pre-filing registration 
portal, the timing of processing submissions may change, making any proposed safe 
harbor period obsolete.
One commenter recommended that the final regulations provide that an election 
could be made prior to receiving a registration number if the applicable entity or electing 
taxpayer completed the pre-filing registration process but had not yet received a 
registration number, suggesting that an amended return could be filed upon receipt of 

the registration number.  These final regulations continue to provide that an applicable 
entity or electing taxpayer that does not obtain a registration number or report the 
registration number on its annual tax return with respect to an otherwise applicable 
credit property is ineligible to receive any elective payment amount with respect to the 
amount of any credit determined with respect to that applicable credit property.  
Publication 5884 states that the IRS will work to issue a registration number even if the 
registration submission is made close in time before the registrant’s filing deadline.  
However, in such cases, the registrant should anticipate that the tax return on which the 
elective payment or transfer election is made may undergo heightened scrutiny to 
mitigate the risk of fraud and duplication that pre-filing registration is intended to 
address before a payment is issued.  
The Treasury Department and the IRS also note that an elective payment 
election can be made on any return filed on or before the due date for filing the tax 
return (including extensions), that §1.6417-2(b)(3)(i) contains a special rule providing an 
automatic paperless six-month extension for entities that are not otherwise able to 
request an automatic six-month extension, and that these final regulations provide late 
election relief for certain taxpayers, assuming the taxpayer has not received an 
extension of time to file a return, the taxpayer’s original return is timely filed, and the 
9100 relief requirements are met.  See parts II.B.2 and II.B.4 of this Summary of 
Comments and Explanation of Revisions.
A few commenters asked about the scope of prefiling registration review and 
whether taxpayers can appeal any denials of registration numbers.  Section 7803(e)(3) 
of the Code provides that it is the function of Appeals to resolve Federal tax 
controversies without litigation.  Decisions made by the IRS relating to the denial, 
suspension, or revocation of a registration number are not Federal tax controversies 
within the meaning of section 7803(e)(3) because registration is too attenuated and 

separate from any tax liability of the applicable entity or electing taxpayer.  Publication 
5884 describes the IRS review, and opportunity for taxpayers to respond with additional 
information, of pre-filing registration submissions.  In cases in which a pre-filing 
registration submission is incomplete, the IRS will attempt to contact the registrant using 
the information provided to indicate deficiencies with the registration prior to making a 
determination.  However, once the IRS determines that a registration number should not 
be given, the registrant may not appeal the denial unless the IRS and Appeals agree 
that such review is available and the IRS provides the time and manner for such review.
A few commenters suggested that pre-filing registration include a “pre-approval 
process” or “pre-approval certification” that ensures that applicable entities would be 
able to make elective payment elections for their projects.  A few of these commenters 
sought the distribution of cash refunds earlier than the filing of a return; for example, 
when a project is placed in service or when pre-filing registration is complete, perhaps 
by allowing for third-party attestations or verification of initial pre-filing information.  One 
commenter asked that the process of obtaining a registration number provide as much 
assurance as possible for applicants that they are indeed eligible for the applicable 
credit for which they intend to make an elective payment election, opining that the pre-
filing registration portal should function as a checklist, so an applicant should have 
reasonable assurance that it will be eligible for the applicable credits if the information it 
provides is accurate.  This commenter stated that, similar to pre-qualifying for a 
mortgage loan before purchasing a home, those who receive registration numbers 
should reasonably be able to expect to receive an elective payment, barring any 
significant changes in project design or entity status.
The pre-filing registration process is not a guarantee that a project will qualify for 
an applicable credit for which an elective payment election may be made, as verification 
of initial pre-filing information cannot be used by the IRS to confirm compliance with the 

requirements of an underlying credit.  Compliance with the underlying credit 
requirements is reported and verified in additional detail on the annual tax return, and, 
as those requirements are provided in Code sections outside of section 6417, are 
largely outside the scope of these final regulations.  Further, section 6417(d)(4) provides 
that the payment is treated as being made by the applicable entity on the later of the 
due date for the return or the date the return is actually filed, so the statute does not 
permit the IRS to make any payments earlier than such dates.  Thus, these final 
regulations do not adopt the commenters’ suggestions.
One commenter asked that the portal allow users to track where they are in the 
approval process and allow for a transparent and expedited appeals process if the clean 
energy project is deemed ineligible for a registration number.  While outside the scope 
of these final regulations, the Treasury Department and the IRS note that the pre-filing 
registration portal does allow users to track where they are in the approval process.  
See Publication 5884.
Proposed §1.6417-5(b)(5)(vii)(D) would have required that, to complete the pre-
filing registration process, registrants must provide information as to the beginning of 
construction date and the placed in service date of the applicable credit property.  A few 
commenters requested that entities be able to complete pre-filing registration prior to 
property being placed in service, such as for residential or small commercial systems or 
for Alaska Native villages and other Tribal entities.  Another commenter requested that 
the final regulations require registration more than 60 days before construction starts for 
prevailing wage and apprenticeship (PWA) purposes.  The Treasury Department and 
the IRS have determined that a registration number should not be given before the 
applicable credit property is placed in service, which is an important step to ensuring 
that the applicable credit property qualifies for the applicable credit for which the 
applicable entity seeks to make an elective payment election.  Because a credit must be 

determined in the taxable year of the elective payment election, maintaining the 
proposed requirement will ensure that taxpayers are not attempting to make an elective 
payment election in a year in which a credit is not determined.  Further, this information 
will help the IRS prevent fraud.  The Treasury Department and the IRS have also 
determined that it is not necessary to require registration prior to construction for PWA 
purposes.  Thus, these final regulations adopt proposed §1.6417-5(b)(5)(vii)(D) without 
change.
Multiple commenters asked that the final regulations allow the option to group 
multiple qualified facilities as a “single project” that would obtain a single registration 
number, or that consolidated filings be available for multiple small projects.  
Commenters asked that the final regulations apply Section 4.04 of Notice 2013-29, 
2012-20 I.R.B. 1085, which provides that multiple qualified facilities may be treated as a 
single project for the “beginning of construction” purposes, provided the facilities share 
certain characteristics, such as common ownership, contiguous location, common PPA, 
or common permits.  A commenter suggested having a “Master Registration 
Agreement” to allow issuing a single registration number as a single master project 
instead of a “thousand or more” registration numbers which would burden the applicable 
entity as well as the IRS.
The definition of applicable credit property in section 6417 is based on the 
relevant rules for the underlying applicable credit, and changes to the definition of 
particular properties under the underlying Code sections is outside the scope of this 
rulemaking.  If such underlying Code section allows grouping to determine a qualified 
property, then grouping for purposes of a registration number is permitted.  If such 
definition does not allow grouping, then each applicable credit property must be 
registered separately; however, for some applicable credits, the pre-filing registration 
portal allows applicable credit property information to be uploaded by way of a 

spreadsheet file (bulk upload).  See Publication 5884.
One commenter asked that the text of §1.6417-5 be amended to specifically 
include the words “restricted tax exempt amounts.”  These final regulations do not adopt 
this suggestion because the term “the source of funds the taxpayer used to acquire the 
property” found in §1.6417-5 includes restricted tax exempt amounts (as described in 
Section II.C.3 of this Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions) and may 
also include information about other sources of funding that the IRS has determined is 
necessary for tax administration.
One commenter asked that applicable entities and electing taxpayers be required 
to state during pre-filing registration whether they intend to qualify for the prevailing 
wage and apprenticeship bonus amount.  These final regulations do not adopt this 
comment because the pre-filing registration process is primarily intended to verify that 
the applicant is an applicable entity and that the registered property is an applicable 
credit property.  Calculation of the credit amount (including qualifying for any bonus 
amounts that would increase the base credit amount) is done on the annual return.  
However, the Treasury Department and the IRS will monitor the pre-filing registration 
process to determine whether requesting additional information is needed to prevent 
duplication, fraud, improper payments, or excessive payments under section 6417.
One commenter asked that the final regulations allow an applicable entity to use 
a certificate, permit, or evidence of ownership, rather than all three, during pre-filing 
registration, especially since applicable entities are required to maintain books and 
records supporting the underlying credit.  Proposed §1.6417-5(b)(5)(vii)(C) would have 
required an applicable entity or electing taxpayer to provide information related to 
applicable credit properties, including “any” supporting documentation relating to the 
construction or acquisition of the applicable credit property.  The Treasury Department 
and the IRS did not intend for proposed §1.6417-5(b)(5)(vii)(C) to require all supporting 

documentation to be provided during the pre-filing registration process.  Rather, the 
intent was to require information sufficient to verify the applicable credit property.  In 
response to the comment, these final regulations remove the word “any” from the 
provision so that it now reads “[s]upporting documentation relating to the construction or 
acquisition of the applicable credit property...”
The documentation to support the existence of valid applicable credit property 
will vary by the credit being claimed.  The pre-filing registration portal and Publication 
5884 list, for each credit, a description of the types of documents that will facilitate 
processing of the pre-filing registration.  A registrant does not need to provide all 
information that may be available; in fact, in February 2024, Publication 5884 states:
If detailed project plans or contractual agreements are the best support 
that the taxpayer is engaging in activities or making tax credit investments 
that qualify the registrant to claim a credit, the registrant should submit an 
extract of the document showing the name of the taxpayer, date of 
purchase and identifying information such as serial numbers, rather than 
the entire document.
However, to the extent the information provided is insufficient for purposes of the 
pre-filing registration process, the IRS may request further information.  See Publication 
5884.
One commenter recommended that the Treasury Department and the IRS 
consider authorizing users to renew their registrations on an annual basis rather than 
submit entirely new registrations each year.  Several commenters stated that renewal of 
registration numbers should not be required because an annual renewal is a significant 
burden on taxpayers and may disincentivize taxpayers from undertaking a production 
tax credit project.  A few commenters stated that renewal should not be required if the 
project is extended or delayed from going into operation or if there is no change in the 
relevant facts with respect to the facility, and one of these commenters requested that 
registration numbers be valid for multiple years for public projects that are more likely to 
be delayed.  Several commenters suggested that, if no factual information required for 

the pre-filing registration process has changed, then the registration portal should 
provide an expedited or streamlined process such as a “short form.”
Proposed §1.6417-5(c)(3) provided, and these final regulations also state, that a 
renewal must be made “in accordance with applicable guidance, including attesting that 
all the facts previously provided are still correct or updating any facts.”  Thus, any 
changes to the pre-filing registration process to make it be more streamlined for 
renewals will be addressed in applicable guidance.  Further, a registration number is not 
provided until an applicable credit property is placed in service; therefore, project delays 
should be irrelevant to the pre-filing registration process.
A commenter asked whether two unrelated taxpayers who own separate 
applicable credit properties (for example, a single process train under section 45Q and 
a qualified facility as defined in section 45Z(d)(4)), could each complete the 
preregistration process so long as such taxpayers ultimately make an elective payment 
election or a transfer election under section 6418 in accordance with the qualification 
rules.  The commenter added it did not expect that both taxpayers would be able to 
claim their respective tax credits in the same taxable year.  The commenter seems to 
misunderstand that pre-filing registration and elective payment elections are made on 
the basis of individual applicable credit properties, so to the extent there are two 
applicable credit properties, separate registration numbers are required.  A registration 
number can only be obtained by the entity who owns the underlying applicable credit 
property and conducts the activities giving rise to the credit or, in the case of section 
45X (under which ownership of applicable credit property is not required), be considered 
(under the section 45X regulations) the taxpayer with respect to which the section 45X 
credit is determined.  Further, a registration number is valid only for the taxable year for 
which it is obtained.  
A few commenters recommended that tax professionals be allowed to apply for 

registration numbers for their clients.  The Treasury Department and the IRS note that 
the proposed regulations would not have restricted a taxpayer from authorizing a 
representative to apply for a registration number on behalf of the taxpayer, and these 
final regulations similarly do not do so.  See Publication 5884, which provides that a 
person who wishes to access Energy Credits Online on behalf of a taxpayer must 
authorize an IRS Energy Credits Online account by selecting "Start Authorization."  
These final regulations modify §1.6417-5(c)(5) to clarify that a valid registration number 
is one that was assigned to the particular taxpayer during the pre-registration process.  
A commenter requested clarification that persons completing pre-filing 
registration documentation on behalf of applicable entities do not, by virtue of such 
activity, become “tax return preparers.”  The determination of whether a person is a tax 
return preparer, as defined under section 7701(a)(36), is based on facts and 
circumstances that are outside of the scope of these final regulations.  
VI. Special Rules
Section 6417(d)(6) provides rules relating to excessive payment, and section 
6417(g) provides rules relating to basis reduction and recapture.  Proposed §1.6417-6 
would have implemented these provisions.
A. Excessive payments
Pursuant to section 6417(d)(6), proposed §1.6417-6(a) would have provided that 
the IRS may determine that an amount treated as a payment made by an applicable 
entity under proposed §1.6417-2(a)(1)(i) or an electing taxpayer under proposed 
§1.6417-2(a)(2)(i), or the amount of the payment made to a partnership electing 
taxpayer pursuant to proposed §1.6417-2(a)(2)(ii), constitutes an excessive payment.  
Proposed §1.6417-6(a) would have provided that, in the case of an excessive payment 
determined by the IRS, the amount of chapter 1 tax imposed on the applicable entity or 
electing taxpayer for the taxable year in which the excessive payment determination is 

made is increased by an amount equal to the sum of (1) the amount of such excessive 
payment, plus (2) an amount equal to 20 percent of such excessive payment (additional 
20 percent tax).  This would be the case even if the applicable entity or electing 
taxpayer is otherwise not subject to chapter 1 tax.  If the additional 20 percent tax is 
applicable, it would apply in addition to any penalties, additions to tax, or other amounts 
applicable under the Code.  The additional 20 percent tax amount would not apply if the 
applicable entity or electing taxpayer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the IRS that the 
excessive payment resulted from reasonable cause.  The preamble to the proposed 
regulations stated that the Treasury Department and the IRS anticipated that existing 
standards of reasonable cause would inform the determination by the IRS of whether 
reasonable cause has been demonstrated for this purpose.
Proposed §1.6417-6(a)(3) would have defined “excessive payment” as an 
amount equal to the excess of (1) the amount treated as a payment under proposed 
§1.6417-2(a)(1)(i) or proposed §1.6417-2(a)(2)(i), or the amount of the payment made 
pursuant to proposed §1.6417-2(a)(2)(ii), with respect to such facility or property for 
such taxable year, over (2) the amount of the credit that, without application of section 
6417, would be otherwise allowable (as described in parts II.C and II. D. or part IV of 
this Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions and without regard to section 
38(c)) under the Code with respect to such facility or property for such taxable year.
Commenters asked for “regulatory relief” from the excessive payment rules, and 
whether appeals rights, deficiency procedures, and the right to petition the Tax Court 
apply to excessive payment determinations by the IRS.  Any excessive payment 
determination will be made by the IRS under established examination procedures and 
these final regulations do not except any taxpayers or any calculations from this 
process.
Several commenters sought clarification of the definition and application of 

reasonable cause, including requesting additional factors or examples (such as the 
absence of fraud, reliance on a project labor agreement, excessive payments that stem 
from labor standards noncompliance, or the misallocation of general versus earmarked 
funding).  Multiple commenters asked that reasonable cause be interpreted broadly to 
include a taxpayer’s “reasonable effort” or “good faith.”  Another commenter 
recommended the final regulations include a rebuttable presumption that applicable 
entities have reasonable cause because they lack internal resources, tax expertise, and 
experience in the initial period of elective payment implementation.  Commenters also 
asked for guidance on reasonable cause and the PWA bonus amount.  The Treasury 
Department and the IRS recognize that taxpayers operating under certain tax rules for 
the first time will desire certainty.  However, reasonable cause standards are already 
well-established under case law and administrative and regulatory authorities.  For 
example, a taxpayer that receives an excessive payment may assert defenses that are 
commonly raised by taxpayers in other situations in which the IRS has asserted an 
addition to tax.  Section 1.6664-4, for example, provides guidance related to reasonable 
cause in the context of accuracy-related penalties under section 6662.  Comments 
regarding reasonable cause standards as they relate to specific provisions concerning 
increased credit or deduction amounts available for taxpayers satisfying PWA 
requirements are outside the scope of these final regulations.  Thus, these final 
regulations continue to provide that existing standards and authorities for determining 
reasonable cause apply for purposes of the additional 20 percent tax amount, and do 
not adopt commenters’ suggestions to create new, special rules for certain types of 
entities or for purposes of section 6417.
As described in part II.C.2 of this Summary of Comments and Explanation of 
Revisions, commenters requested that the final regulations clarify whether a taxpayer 
could amend its return to adjust the elective payment amount and avoid incurring the 

excessive payment addition to tax.  These final regulations clarify that, if an applicable 
entity or electing taxpayer amends its tax return or files an AAR before the IRS opens 
an examination, and the amended return or AAR adjusts the elective payment amount 
to the amount properly determined with respect to the applicable entity or electing 
taxpayer, then the excessive payment provisions of section 6417(d)(6) and §1.6417-
6(a) would not apply.
B. Basis reduction and recapture
Section 6417(g) provides basis reduction and recapture rules.  It states that, 
except as otherwise provided in section 6417(d)(2)(A), rules similar to the rules of 
section 50 apply for purposes of section 6417.  (Section 6417(g) erroneously refers to 
section 6417(c)(2)(A), a provision that does not exist, and it is evident that such 
reference was intended to be to section 6417(d)(2)(A).  That error is accounted for in 
these final regulations.)  Proposed §1.6417-6(b) would have provided these rules.  
One commenter addressed basis reduction, requesting that the basis reduction 
under section 50(c)(3) not apply to a taxable electric cooperative that is an applicable 
entity under the statute.  The commenter stated that electric cooperatives seldom 
dispose of or sell any significant assets; instead, they typically retire the assets once 
they are no longer used and useful in providing electric service.  The commenter also 
stated that taxable electric cooperatives typically have little to no tax liability and utilize 
longer straight-line methods of tax depreciation; as a result, there is no increase in tax 
that may result from reduced depreciation deductions.  
The Treasury Department and the IRS note that most applicable entities listed in 
section 6417(d)(1)(A) have little or no tax liability and have concluded that, as section 
6417(g) states that rules “similar to” the rules of section 50 apply for purposes of section 
6417 and there does not appear to be any valid reason to treat a taxable rural electric 
cooperative differently from other applicable entities with respect to this rule, these final 

regulations should not adopt this suggestion.
A commenter asked that the final regulations include an exception to the 
recapture rules for certain sales by applicable entities, for example, a sale to a party that 
would (1) be a more suitable operator and (2) be able to monetize tax depreciation 
(unlike applicable entities in most circumstances).  The Treasury Department and the 
IRS have determined that allowing such exceptions would be too far of a departure from 
the general rules of section 50, as section 6417(g) provides that rules similar to section 
50 apply.  Section 50(a) provides that if, during any taxable year, investment credit 
property is disposed of, or otherwise ceases to be investment credit property with 
respect to the taxpayer, before the close of the recapture period (which is five years 
after the property is placed in service), then the tax under chapter 1 for such taxable 
year is increased by the recapture percentage.  To provide an exception for sales to a 
party that the seller determines to be a more suitable operator, or because the buyer 
would be able to take a depreciation deduction, would severely limit the application and 
congressional purpose of section 50.  Thus, these final regulations do not adopt this 
comment.
VII. Comments that are Outside the Scope of These Final Regulations
Several commenters noted typos or corrections to the proposed regulations, 
which were generally corrected in these final regulations.  In addition, several categories 
of comments were outside the scope of these final regulations but are generally 
summarized below.
A. Requests to streamline or simplify the process
In addition to general requests to streamline the pre-filing registration process, a 
few commenters asked that the IRS prioritize support for low-income and 
disadvantaged communities, and several commenters requested that their particular 
entity be eligible for a simplified process.  One commenter requested that the final 

regulations eliminate the tax return requirement for governmental entities that do not 
have a Federal tax obligation, and another commenter requested a “waiver process.”  
The Treasury Department and the IRS acknowledge the potential for complexity for 
applicable entities and electing taxpayers seeking to make elective payment elections, 
especially for taxpayers who have not historically had a return-filing obligation, and have 
sought to balance taxpayer compliance burdens with the need to ensure payments are 
being correctly made to applicable entities and electing taxpayers.  The proposed 
regulations specifically requested comments on methods to reduce paperwork burden 
or burdens on small entities.  While these final regulations do not adopt comments 
recommending a streamlined process for certain taxpayers, including comments 
suggesting the removal of a return-filing requirement, the Treasury Department and the 
IRS will continue to monitor the elective payment process to determine whether there 
are areas in which more efficiencies can be created.
B. Requests for plain language guidance or other assistance
Multiple commenters asked for additional help in accessing applicable credits, 
including developing and delivering a far-reaching awareness campaign; providing a 
webinar or workshop to provide clear guidance and clarification to some of the issues 
raised; providing IRS staff to answer questions via email, telephone, or in-person 
outreach or via a taxpayer customer service portal and ensuring this support is culturally 
appropriate and language-accessible; publishing straightforward materials (for example, 
a checklist of necessary steps) to claim credits; publishing templates, filing manuals, 
sample forms, and documentation examples; providing clear examples of timelines, 
including for entities with different tax filing years; providing regular updates on when 
these credits will expire; testing approaches with early potential users and using 
feedback to adjust as necessary; collaborating with other agencies; leveraging 
community partnerships; and expanding efforts to proactively consult communities with 

the greatest barriers to access, among other things.
The Treasury Department and the IRS acknowledge the learning curve many 
taxpayers will face in registering for and making elective payment elections for 
applicable credits and intend to provide as much additional assistance as possible to 
taxpayers.  The Treasury Department and the IRS are endeavoring to provide as much 
plain language guidance as possible to taxpayers to expand access and uptake of 
applicable credits.  As previously discussed, the Treasury Department and the IRS will 
monitor the pre-filing registration and filing processes and have already embarked on 
many of these recommendations.  For example, as of the publication of these final 
regulations, the Treasury Department and the IRS have conducted webinars; issued 
FAQs; published information on IRS.gov
12
 on how taxpayers can complete the pre-filing 
registration process; and have held “office hours” with taxpayers offering assistance 
with the pre-filing registration process.
One commenter recommended creation of a simple online “elective payment 
amount estimator” tool that would estimate (without guarantees) the elective payment 
amount and the timing of key actions (for example, when to register and file, when 
receipt of payment is estimated) that could aid taxpayers considering the making of an 
elective payment election.  Such a tool, according to the commenter, would facilitate 
bridge financing by assisting, for example, school construction authorities or green 
banks by estimating future elective payment amounts.  It is not possible for the IRS to 
estimate the elective payment amount at the time of pre-filing because the IRS will not 
have adequate information, such as eligibility for bonus credit amounts to make such a 
calculation, but a taxpayer may be able to estimate the amount of credit by completing a 
draft Form 3800 and any required completed source form(s).
C. Tax exempt bonds
12
 For additional information, see https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/elective-pay-and-transferability. 

The proposed regulations did not contain any rules specifically addressing the 
use of tax-exempt bond financing.  However, multiple commenters had questions about 
the interplay between tax-exempt bonds and section 6417.  These questions generally 
are outside of the scope of these final regulations because the use of proceeds of tax-
exempt bonds under section 103 may impact the amount of a particular applicable 
credit in the underlying Code sections (such as sections 45 and 48), and such reduction 
in the credit amount occurs before the application of section 6417 and independently 
from the application of section 6417.
One commenter requested that the final regulations clarify that the amount 
received pursuant to an elective payment election is not treated as “proceeds” of a tax-
exempt bond issue, which would be subject to use and investment limits under the tax-
exempt bond rules.  This commenter stated that, if the payment were treated as 
proceeds of a bond issue, the use of tax-exempt bond financing could ruin the 
economics of the deal.  The Treasury Department and the IRS confirm that section 
6417(a) provides that the applicable credit is treated as a payment against the tax 
imposed by subtitle A and, therefore, the amount received as an elective payment is not 
proceeds of a tax-exempt bond issue.
Multiple commenters addressed the reduction to the section 45 credit required by 
section 45(b)(3) (section 45(b)(3) credit reduction) for the use of tax-exempt bond 
proceeds and its interaction with section 6417(a).  One commenter requested 
clarification that the section 45(b)(3) credit reduction is not required if parties use tax-
exempt bridge financing for credit property and retire it before the facility is placed in 
service.  One commenter recommended that project owners be granted permission to 
use the tax-exempt bond allocation rules (that is, the allocation rules for purposes of 
determining a bond’s tax-exempt status) to determine the percentage of tax-exempt 
bond financing utilized and calculate any reduction necessary if energy credits are 

utilized.  One commenter stated that calculation of the credit reduction percentage 
should be permitted to occur when the tax-exempt bonds are structured, sold, or issued, 
because unless additional funds are added to the project, a final allocation of tax-
exempt bond proceeds to expenditures under §1.148-6 should not result in a change in 
the amounts of tax-exempt bond proceeds and other funds for purposes of calculating 
the credit reduction percentage.  One commenter requested examples for local 
governments or municipal utilities of how the section 45(b)(3) credit reduction affects 
elective payment amounts.  One commenter requested confirmation that the cost 
determination necessary to calculate the extent of any section 45(b)(3) credit reduction 
with respect to a production tax credit facility should be based on criteria and guidance 
developed in the context of investment tax credits.  One commenter stated that the 
allocation of tax-exempt bond proceeds for purposes of the section 45(b)(3) credit 
reduction to property that is qualified or non-qualified for a credit within a larger facility 
that includes both types of property should not impact the application of the bond rules 
under §1.141-6 relating to private business use.  This commenter also stated there 
should be no requirement that the allocations under section 45(b)(3) and §1.141-6 be 
consistent with regards to floating allocations of sources of funding to uses.  One 
commenter recommended that the final regulations treat tax-exempt bond proceeds as 
automatically allocated to any portions of the overall facility that are not part of the 
"qualified facility" (as that term is used in section 45(b)(3)).
The rules for the allocation of tax-exempt bond proceeds for purposes of the 
credit reduction fraction under section 45(b)(3) and §1.148-6(d) are generally outside 
the scope of these final regulations.  Section 1.148-6(d) provides that an issuer must 
account for the allocation of proceeds to expenditures not later than 18 months after the 
later of the date the expenditure is paid or the date the project, if any, that is financed by 
the issue is placed in service.  Further, the allocation must be made in any event by the 

date 60 days after the fifth anniversary of the issue date or the date 60 days after the 
retirement of the issue.
One commenter requested that, if the rules for allocation of tax-exempt bond 
proceeds to expenditures under §1.148-6 are applied to credit reduction for tax-exempt 
bond financing under section 45(b)(3), the final regulations should provide an automatic 
extension to file a superseding return to reflect changes with regards to tax-exempt 
financing, or issue other guidance to accommodate this situation.  As discussed in part 
II.B.2 of this Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions, these final 
regulations allow an applicable entity or electing taxpayer that has made an elective 
payment election on an original return to file a superseding return if permissible, or to 
amend their return or file an AAR to the extent the amount of the applicable credit is 
later determined to need adjustment.
Commenters asked that excessive payment provisions not apply if allocations of 
tax-exempt bond proceeds to expenditures under §1.148-6 occur after a project is 
placed in service.  As described in part IV.A of this Summary of Comments and 
Explanation of Revisions, excessive payment provisions may apply if the amount the 
applicable entity treats as a payment under section 6417(a) (including the allocations of 
tax-exempt bond expenditures) is greater than the amount of the credit that, without 
application of section 6417, would be otherwise allowable (as determined pursuant to 
section 6417(d)(2) and without regard to section 38(c)).  However, as described in part 
VI.A of this Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions, if a taxpayer amends 
their return or files an AAR before the IRS opens an examination, then the 20-percent 
addition to tax does not apply.
One commenter requested guidance that the rules under section 50(c) regarding 
the reduction of basis (section 50(c) basis reduction rules) and the recapture of credits 
will not cause tax-exempt bond proceeds to be deallocated from project costs.  The 

section 50(c) basis reduction rules are outside of the scope of these final regulations.  
The Treasury Department and the IRS clarify that the section 50(c) basis reduction rules 
apply to the credit that is determined, but any effect on the allocation or deallocation of 
tax-exempt bond proceeds occurs outside of these final regulations.
A few commenters asked whether refundable credits pledged as security or used 
to pay debt service for a bond issue results in a Federal guarantee of the bonds per 
section 149 of the Code.  The Treasury Department and the IRS confirm that a pledge 
of the refundable credits as security for, or the use of the refundable credits to pay debt 
service on, the bonds by itself does not result in a Federal guarantee of the bonds.
One commenter wanted confirmation that the existing allocation and accounting 
rules in §1.141-6 apply with respect to the credit reduction for tax-exempt bond 
financing under section 45(b)(3), whereas another commenter requested that the 
regulations under section 141 be “modernized” in light of the enactment of section 6417.  
Regulations under section 141 are outside of the scope of these final regulations.
Commenters requested that the reduction for restricted tax exempt amounts 
considered in the special rule for investment-related credit property acquired with tax 
exempt income in proposed §1.6417-2(c)(3) be calculated after the 15 percent credit 
reduction under section 45(b)(3) related to tax-exempt financing is made.  The Treasury 
Department and the IRS confirm that the rule in §1.6417-2(c)(3) applies after application 
of any reduction under section 45(b)(3) because determination of the underlying credit 
amount occurs before the amount is possibly adjusted by section 6417 and the 
regulations thereunder.
Commenters requested confirmation that the 15-percent credit reduction under 
section 45(b)(3) for the use of tax-exempt financing is applied separately and 
independently to each co-tenant's undivided interest in cases in which applicable credit 
property is held as a TIC or JOA.  The Treasury Department and the IRS can confirm 

that each co-tenant’s undivided interest is an undivided ownership share of the 
applicable credit property and will be treated as a separate applicable credit property 
owned by such applicable entity under §1.6417-2(a)(1)(iii).  Thus, it will be necessary for 
each owner to determine whether its undivided ownership share is subject to the 
reduction under section 45(b)(3).
D. Comments about other Code provisions
Multiple commenters asked about the application of other Code provisions.  For 
example, commenters asked for guidance on the underlying credits or bonus provisions 
such as the energy communities bonus amount, the prevailing wage and apprenticeship 
bonus amounts, and the domestic content bonus amount and for domestic content 
waivers.  Commenters asked that the placed in service requirements be clarified or 
relaxed in various ways.  Commenters requested guidance under section 30C, including 
a map or searchable address database that clearly shows eligible census tracts.  
Commenters also asked for guidance under sections 45U, 45V, and 48; asked whether 
the 5 MW maximum threshold for projects qualifying for the Low-Income Bonus to the 
ITC applies to individual sites or interconnection points; asked what is allowed in the 
cost basis of the project (e.g., infrastructure costs and soft costs); asked for guidance on 
the “clean electricity ITC and PTC;” and asked for clarifications regarding 45X facilities 
(how to designate different parts as different facilities).  Commenters asked what 
methods tax-exempt entities could use to monetize depreciation deductions and that 
applicable entities should be able to make elective payment elections with respect to 
section 179D deductions.  All of these comments are outside the scope of this 
rulemaking, which addresses only sections 6417 and 6241.
E. Comments about provisions outside the Internal Revenue Code.
Multiple commenters asked for guidance on provisions that are not a part of the 
Code.  For example, commenters requested (1) guidance on how a city could protect 

itself from liability without losing the ability to make an elective payment election 
because of the per se corporation rule; (2) guidance on how an applicable entity could 
obtain funding related to payments it expects to receive from making an elective 
payment election; (3) clarification on whether applicable credits are treated as 
“proceeds... from any other activities of the Corporation” under 16 U.S.C. 831y; (4) 
guidance on whether refunds greater than $5 million will require review by the Joint 
Committee on Taxation; (5) confirmation that for a partnership (i) with a tax-exempt 
electric cooperative as a partner, and (ii) that elects under section 761 to be excluded 
from the application of subchapter K, the basis of the allocable share of property to the 
tax exempt electric cooperative is determined both by tax law plus any other costs 
incurred by the tax exempt electric cooperative using book accounting in accordance 
with generally acceptable accounting principles (GAAP) that are properly capitalizable;
13
 
and (6) guidance on whether a municipal utility that builds a qualifying bioenergy project 
and seeks the tax incentive could also consider implementing an eRINs program with 
the renewable energy produced, and if so, whether this impacts the tax incentive in any 
way, or causes a reduction in the incentive.  All of these comments are outside the 
scope of this rulemaking.
Effect on Other Documents
The temporary regulations are removed [INSERT DATE 60 DAYS AFTER DATE 
OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].
Special Analyses
I. Regulatory Planning and Review
Pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement, Review of Treasury Regulations 
13
 The commenter stated that tax-exempt electric cooperatives, as tax-exempt entities, use book 
accounting based on GAAP and Uniform Systems of Account such as provided by the Rural Utilities 
Service, and stated that it would be helpful to know that, while their initial basis in a partnership asset may 
have been determined on a tax basis, cost subsequent to the election under section 761 to be excluded 
from the application of subchapter K that are properly capitalizable under GAAP are also properly 
includible in the cost basis of a qualifying asset for Federal income tax purposes.

under Executive Order 12866 (June 9, 2023), tax regulatory actions issued by the IRS 
are not subject to the requirements of section 6(b) of Executive Order 12866, as 
amended.  Therefore, a regulatory impact assessment is not required.
II. Paperwork Reduction Act
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520) (PRA) generally 
requires that a Federal agency obtain the approval of the Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB) before collecting information from the public, whether such collection of 
information is mandatory, voluntary, or required to obtain or retain a benefit.  An agency 
may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of 
information unless the collection of information displays a valid control number.
The collections of information in these final regulations contain reporting and 
recordkeeping requirements.  The recordkeeping requirements mentioned within these 
final regulations are considered general tax records under Section 1.6001-1(e).  These 
records are required for the IRS to validate that taxpayers have met the regulatory 
requirements and are entitled to make an elective payment election.  For PRA 
purposes, general tax records are already approved by OMB under 1545-0047 for tax-
exempt organizations and government entities; 1545-0074 for individuals; and under 
1545-0123 for business entities.
These final regulations also mention reporting requirements related to making 
elections as detailed in §§1.6417-2 and 1.6417-3 and calculating the claim amounts as 
detailed in §§1.6417-2 and 1.6417-4.  These elections will be made by taxpayers on 
Forms 990-T, 1040, 1120-S, 1065, and 1120; and credit calculations will be made on 
Form 3800 and supporting forms.  These forms are approved under 1545-0047 for tax-
exempt organizations and governmental entities; 1545-0074 for individuals; and 1545-
0123 for business entities.
These final regulations also mention recapture procedures as detailed in 

§1.6417-6.  These recaptures are performed using Form 4255.  This form is approved 
under 1545-0047 for tax-exempt organizations and governmental entities; 1545-0074 
for individuals; and 1545-0123 for business entities.  These final regulations are not 
changing or creating new collection requirements not already approved by OMB.
These final regulations mention a requirement to register with the IRS to be able 
to elect payments as detailed in §1.6417-5.  The pre-filing registration portal is approved 
under 1545-2310 for all filers.
The IRS solicited feedback on the collection requirements for reporting, 
recordkeeping, and pre-filing registration.  Although no public comments received by the 
IRS were directed specifically at the PRA or on the collection requirements, several 
commenters generally expressed concerns about the burdens associated with the 
documentation requirements contained in the proposed regulations.  As described in the 
relevant portions of this preamble, the Treasury Department and the IRS believe that 
the documentation requirements are necessary to administer the elective payment 
election under section 6417.
III. Regulatory Flexibility Act
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) (RFA) imposes certain 
requirements with respect to Federal rules that are subject to the notice and comment 
requirements of section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551 et 
seq.) and that are likely to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number 
of small entities.  Unless an agency determines that a proposal is not likely to have a 
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, section 603 of the 
RFA requires the agency to present a final regulatory flexibility analysis (FRFA) of the 
final regulations.  The Treasury Department and the IRS have not determined whether 
these final regulations will likely have a significant economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities.  This determination requires further study.  Because there is a 

possibility of significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, a 
FRFA is provided in these final regulations.
Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Code, this notice of final rulemaking has been 
submitted to the Chief Counsel of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for 
comment on its impact on small business, and no comments were received.
1. Need for and Objectives of the Rule
These final regulations provide greater clarity to taxpayers that intend to take 
advantage of the credit monetization mechanism in section 6417.  It provides needed 
definitions, the time and manner to make the election, and information about the pre-
filing registration process, among other items.  The Treasury Department and the IRS 
intend and expect that giving taxpayers guidance that allows them to use section 6417 
will beneficially impact various industries, delivering benefits across the economy, and 
reduce economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions.
In particular, section 6417 allows applicable entities to treat an applicable credit 
as a payment against Federal income taxes and defines applicable entities to include 
many entities that may not have any tax liability.  Allowing entities without sufficient 
Federal income tax liability to use a business tax credit to instead make an election to 
receive a refund of any overpayment of taxes created by the elective payment election 
will increase the incentive for taxpayers to invest in clean energy projects that give rise 
to applicable credits because it will increase the amount of cash available to those 
entities, thereby reducing the amount of financing needed for clean energy projects.
2. Significant Issues Raised by Public Comments in Response to the IRFA
There were no comments filed that specifically addressed the Proposed Rules 
and policies presented in the IRFA. Additionally, no comments were filed by the Chief 
Counsel of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration.
3. Affected Small Entities

The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of, and if feasible, an estimate 
of, the number of small entities that may be affected by the final regulations, if adopted.  
The Small Business Administration’s Office of Advocacy estimates in its 2023 
Frequently Asked Questions that 99.9 percent of American businesses meet its 
definition of a small business.  The applicability of these final regulations does not 
depend on the size of the business, as defined by the Small Business Administration.  
As described more fully in the preamble to these final regulations and in this FRFA, 
section 6417 and these final regulations may affect a variety of different entities across 
several different industries as there are 12 different applicable credits for which an 
elective payment election may be made.  Further, the elective payment election for 3 of 
the applicable credits may be made both by applicable entities and by taxpayers other 
than applicable entities.  Although there is uncertainty as to the exact number of small 
businesses within this group, the current estimated number of respondents to these final 
rules is 20,000 taxpayers, as described in the Paperwork Reduction Act section of the 
preamble.
The Treasury Department and the IRS expect to receive more information on the 
impact on small businesses once taxpayers start to make the elective payment election 
using the guidance and procedures provided in these final regulations.
4. Impact of the Rules
These final regulations provide rules for how taxpayers can take advantage of 
the section 6417 credit monetization regime.  Taxpayers that elect to take advantage of 
section 6417 will have administrative costs related to reading and understanding the 
rules as well as recordkeeping and reporting requirements because of the pre-filing 
registration and tax return requirements.  The costs will vary across different-sized 
entities and across the type of project(s) in which such entities are engaged.
The pre-filing registration process requires a taxpayer to register itself as 

intending to make the elective payment election, to list all applicable credits it intends to 
claim, and to list each applicable credit property that contributed to the determination of 
such credits.  This process must be completed to receive a registration number for each 
applicable credit property with respect to which the applicable taxpayer intends to make 
an elective payment election.  To make the elective payment election and claim the 
credit, the taxpayer must file an annual tax return.  The reporting and recordkeeping 
requirements for that return would be required for any taxpayer that is claiming a 
general business credit, regardless of whether the taxpayer was making an elective 
payment election under section 6417.
Although the Treasury Department and the IRS do not have sufficient data to 
determine precisely the likely extent of the increased costs of compliance, the estimated 
burden of complying with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements are described 
in the Paperwork Reduction Act section of the preamble.
5. Alternatives Considered
The Treasury Department and the IRS considered alternatives to the final 
regulations.  For example, in adopting the pre-filing registration requirements, the 
Treasury Department and the IRS considered whether such information could be 
obtained at the filing of the relevant annual tax return.  However, the Treasury 
Department and the IRS decided that such an option would increase the opportunity for 
duplication, fraud, improper payments, or excessive payments under section 6417 as 
well as potentially delaying payments to qualifying taxpayers.  Section 6417(d)(5) 
specifically authorizes the IRS to require such information or registration as the 
Secretary deems necessary for purposes of preventing duplication, fraud, improper 
payments, or excessive payments under section 6417 as a condition of, and prior to, 
any amount being treated as a payment that is made by an applicable entity under 
section 6417.  As described in the preamble to these final regulations, these final rules 

carry out that Congressional intent as pre-filing registration allows for the IRS to verify 
certain information in a timely manner and then process the annual tax return with 
minimal delays.  Having a distinction between applicable entities or electing taxpayers 
that are small businesses versus others making an elective payment election would 
create a scenario in which a subset of taxpayers seeking to make an elective payment 
election would not have been verified or received registration numbers, potentially 
delaying payment not only to them but to other taxpayers seeking to use section 6417.
Additionally, in considering how taxpayers should claim the credits and make the 
elective payment election, the Treasury Department and the IRS considered creating an 
election system outside of the tax return filing system.  However, it was determined that 
such a process would not be an efficient use of resources, especially given the statutory 
due date to make an election, which is the return filing date for the taxpayers with a 
filing obligation (which would include small business taxpayers).  The Treasury 
Department and the IRS decided that the most efficient and reliable method is to use 
the existing method for claiming business tax credits; that is, the filing of the annual tax 
return.  To create a different method for small businesses making an elective payment 
election than for a small business claiming the credit (or a larger business making an 
elective payment election or claiming the credit) would create an additional burden for 
both small businesses and the IRS, without any commensurate benefit.
The Treasury Department and the IRS solicited comments on the requirements 
in the proposed regulations, including specifically whether there are less burdensome 
alternatives that do not increase the risk of duplication, fraud, improper payments, or 
excessive payments under section 6417.  The comments received in response to this 
request have been discussed in the preceding paragraphs.
6. Duplicative, Overlapping, or Conflicting Federal Rules
These final regulations do not duplicate, overlap, or conflict with any relevant 

