s only to taxpayers that have not received an extension of time to file a 
return after the original due date.  Taxpayers eligible for this relief must take corrective 
action under §301.9100-2(c) within the six-month extension period and follow the 
procedural requirements of §301.9100-2(d).
A few commenters requested clarification on superseding returns.  One 
commenter stated that the proposed regulations appeared ambiguous regarding 
whether a return filed after the original due date, but within the automatic extension 
period, is considered a superseding return.  This commenter recommended clarifying 
that this would be considered a superseding return.
Neither the Code nor regulations define a superseding return, but administrative 
IRS guidance provides that a superseding return is a return filed subsequent to the 
originally-filed return but before the due date for filing the return (including extensions).  
For example, if an applicable entity subject to an automatic 6-month extension files an 
original return on the due date (excluding extensions) and then files a subsequent return 
within the automatic extension period, the subsequent return would generally be 
considered a superseding return.  Unlike a superseding return, an amended return is a 
return filed after the taxpayer filed an original return and after the due date for filing the 

return (including extensions).
One commenter stated that the reference to a superseding return seems to be an 
acknowledgment that some taxpayers will use a provisional tax return filed on the due 
date (before extensions) to hasten the election process.  This commenter asked 
whether, if a taxpayer files a provisional return on March 15, 2024, and files a 
superseding return on September 15, 2024, the taxpayer would be treated as making 
payment against tax under section 6417(d)(4) on March 15, 2024.  The Treasury 
Department and the IRS note that the designation “provisional” return has no basis in 
the Code or regulations and accordingly, such returns are not treated differently by the 
IRS upon filing.  Taxpayers are reminded that a tax return is signed under penalties of 
perjury that the return is true, correct, and complete.  If an original return is filed on 
March 15, 2024, and contains a valid elective payment election, the taxpayer is treated 
as making a payment against tax on that day.  A superseding return could increase or 
reduce the amount of the net elective payment election.  If the amount is increased, the 
additional elective payment is treated as paid on the date the superseding return was 
filed.  Taxpayers should be aware that filing a superseding return could result in a delay 
in processing the additional elective payment amount.  If the net elective payment 
amount is reduced because of the superseding return, the taxpayer could be subject to 
interest and, if the taxpayer fails to pay the difference with the superseding return, 
penalties.
3. Pre-filing Registration Requirements
Proposed §1.6417-2(b)(2) would have specified that pre-filing registration (as is 
required under §1.6417-5T and would be required under proposed §1.6417-5) is a 
condition of any amount being treated as a payment that is made by an applicable entity 
under section 6417(a).  The proposed regulations stated that an elective payment 
election will not be effective with respect to applicable credits determined with respect to 

an applicable credit property unless the applicable entity or electing taxpayer receives a 
valid registration number for the applicable credit property and provides the registration 
number for each applicable credit property on its Form 3800 (or its successor) attached 
to the tax return, in accordance with guidance.  These final regulations clarify in 
§1.6417-2(b)(2) that a valid registration number must also be included on any required 
completed source credit form(s) with respect to the applicable credit property. Additional 
information about the pre-filing registration process is described in part V of this 
Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions.
4. Due Date Requirements
Section 6417(d)(3)(A)(i) provides that any election under section 6417(a) must be 
made not later than (1) in the case of any government, or political subdivision, described 
in section 6417(d)(1) and for which no return is required under section 6011 or 6033(a), 
such date as is determined appropriate by the Secretary, or (2) in any other case, the 
due date (including extensions of time) for the return of tax for the taxable year for which 
the election is made, but in no event earlier than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of section 6417 (February 13, 2023).  Section 6417 is applicable to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2022.
Proposed §1.6417-2(b)(3) would have implemented this provision as follows.  In 
the case of any taxpayer for which no income tax return is required under section 6011 
or 6033(a) of the Code (such as a governmental entity), the elective payment election 
must be made no later than the due date (including an extension of time) for the original 
return that would be due under section 6033(a) if such applicable entity were described 
in that section.  Under section 6072(e) of the Code, that date is the 15th day of the fifth 
month after the taxable year determined by section 441 of the Code.  Subject to the 
issuance of guidance that specifies the manner in which an entity for which no Federal 
income tax return is required under section 6011 or 6033(a) of the Code could request 

an extension of time to file, the proposed regulations would have provided that an 
automatic paperless six-month extension from the original due date is deemed to be 
allowed.
In the case of any taxpayer that is not normally required to file an annual tax 
return with the IRS (such as those located in the U.S. territories), the proposed 
regulations would have provided that the elective payment election must be made no 
later than the due date (including extensions of time) that would apply if the taxpayer 
was located in the United States (such as the 15th day of the fourth month after the end 
of the year for individuals filing Form 1040 or for corporations filing Form 1120).  For 
example, an individual in a U.S. territory would be required to make the elective 
payment election on or before the 15th day of April following the close of the calendar 
year, or, if the individual filed an extension, on or before the 15th day of October 
following the close of the calendar year.
The proposed regulations would have provided that, in any other case, the 
elective payment election must be made no later than the due date (including 
extensions of time) for the original return for the taxable year for which the election is 
made, but in no event earlier than February 13, 2023.
Commenters did not address the second or third provisions, and they are 
adopted without change.  However, with respect to the first provision, these final 
regulations simplify the provision in proposed §1.6417-2(b)(3), which stated that an 
elective payment elective must be made no later than, “[i]n the case of any taxpayer for 
which no Federal income tax return is required under section 6011 or 6033(a) of the 
Code, the due date (including an extension of time) for the original return that would be 
due under section 6033(a) if such applicable entity were described in that section.  
Under section 6072(e), that date is the 15th day of the fifth month after the taxable year 
determined by section 441 of the Code,” to simply provide that an elective payment 

election must be made no later than, “[i]n the case of any taxpayer for which no Federal 
income tax return is required under sections 6011 or no Federal return is required under 
6033(a) of the Code [ ], the 15th day of the fifth month after the taxable year.”
Commenters asked that the final regulations clarify the determination of taxable 
year for an entity that does not have a filing requirement under section 6011 or 6033(a), 
stating that the reference to “the taxable year determined by section 441 of the Code” is 
confusing and that the Code provides latitude to taxpayers in determining their 
applicable taxable year (including calendar year, fiscal year, and short years as 
applicable).  Commenters gave the example of an applicable entity that is filing Form 
990-T for the sole reason of making an elective payment election for an applicable 
credit.  If the applicable entity uses a fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending June 30, 
placed in service a project for which an applicable credit was determined during the first 
six months of 2023, and used its fiscal year for purposes of establishing a taxable year, 
then the applicable entity would be ineligible to make an elective payment election for 
such project because the fiscal year during which the project was placed in service 
began on July 1, 2022, which is a fiscal year beginning before December 31, 2022.  
Commenters noted that similarly situated taxpayers who file their returns on a calendar 
year basis would be eligible to make an elective payment election.  Commenters 
requested that they be allowed to choose a calendar taxable year for purposes of 
making an elective payment election, or, alternatively, that they be permitted to file 
using a short year beginning January 1, 2023, and ending on the date of their next fiscal 
year.
These final regulations delete the reference to section 441 and clarify that, for 
purposes of section 6417, an applicable entity that is not required to file a Federal 
income tax return pursuant to section 6011 or Federal return pursuant to section 
6033(a) (such as a State; the District of Columbia; an Indian tribal government; any U.S. 

territory; a political subdivision of a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, or 
a subdivision of an Indian tribal government; certain agencies or instrumentalities of a 
State, the District of Columbia, an Indian tribal government, or a U.S. territory; or a 
taxpayer excluded from filing pursuant to section 6033(a)(3)), but is filing solely to make 
an elective payment election, may choose whether to file its first Form 990-T (and thus 
adopt a taxable year for purposes of section 6417) based upon a calendar or fiscal year, 
provided that such entity maintains adequate book and records, including a 
reconciliation of any difference between its regular books of account and its chosen 
taxable year, to support making an elective payment election on the basis of its chosen 
taxable year.  This should allow an applicable entity that is not required to file a Federal 
income tax return pursuant to section 6011 or Federal return pursuant to section 6033, 
but has placed in service an applicable credit property in 2023, to file Form 990-T based 
on a calendar year and make an elective payment election with respect to the 
applicable credit property regardless of when the property was placed in service during 
2023.
These final regulations continue to provide, consistent with the proposed 
regulations, that, subject to issuance of guidance that specifies the manner in which an 
entity for which no Federal income tax return is required under section 6011 or no 
Federal return is required under section 6033(a) could request an extension of time to 
file and make the elective payment election, an automatic paperless six-month 
extension from the 15th day of the fifth month after the taxable year is deemed to be 
allowed.
The Treasury Department and the IRS note that a taxpayer that has filed a 
Federal income tax return under section 6011 or a Federal return under section 6033(a) 
with the IRS must continue to use that taxable year unless the taxpayer requests a 
change of annual accounting period pursuant to section 442 of the Code.

5. Irrevocability Requirement
Proposed §1.6417-2(b)(4) would have provided that any election under section 
6417(a), once made, is irrevocable and applies with respect to any applicable credit for 
the taxable year for which the election is made.
Under section 6417, the election period applies for a period of years with respect 
to certain applicable credits.  Specifically, for a section 45 credit or section 45Y credit, 
the election applies to the 10-year period beginning on the date the facility was originally 
placed in service.  For a section 45Q credit, the election applies to the 12-year period 
beginning on the date the equipment was originally placed in service.  For a section 45V 
credit, the election applies to all subsequent taxable years with respect to the facility.
Electing taxpayers make the election for one five-year period per applicable 
credit property, but are allowed one revocation per applicable credit property, as 
provided in section 6417(d)(1)(D), (d)(3)(C), and (d)(3)(D), and would have been 
provided in proposed §1.6417-3 (as described in part III of this Explanation of 
Provisions).
No commenters addressed the irrevocability rule, and these final regulations 
adopt the rule without change.
6. No Partial Elections
Proposed §1.6417-2(b)(5) would have provided that an elective payment election 
applies to the entire amount of applicable credit(s) determined with respect to each 
applicable credit property that was properly registered for the taxable year, resulting in 
an elective payment amount that is the entire amount of applicable credit(s) determined 
with respect to the applicable entity or electing taxpayer for a taxable year.  As a result, 
the proposed regulations would require that an applicable entity make an elective 
payment election for the entire amount of the credit determined with respect to each 
applicable credit property.

A few commenters advocated for allowing partial elections, stating that this 
flexibility would be helpful. The Treasury Department and the IRS note that the statute 
and the proposed regulations already provide considerable flexibility because taxpayers 
can register none, some, or all of their applicable credit properties.  Further, as opposed 
to section 6418(a), which allows an eligible taxpayer to elect to transfer all (or any 
portion specified in the election) of an eligible credit, section 6417(a) provides that an 
applicable entity making an election is treated as making a payment against the income 
tax “equal to the amount of” the applicable credit, which does not provide the flexibility 
to make an election equal to a portion of the applicable credit.  Thus, these final 
regulations adopt the proposed regulations without change.
C. Determination of applicable credit
Proposed §1.6417-2(c) would have provided three rules relating to the 
determination of any applicable credit: (1) special rules for tax-exempt organizations 
and government entities; (2) a special rule for investment-related credit property 
acquired with income that is exempt from taxation under subtitle A; and (3) a rule that 
credits must be determined with respect to the applicable entity or electing taxpayer.
1. Special Rules for Tax-exempt Organizations and Government Entities
In accordance with section 6417(d)(2), proposed §1.6417-2(c)(1) would have 
provided that, in the case of any applicable entity that makes the election described in 
section 6417(a), any applicable credit is determined (1) without regard to the restrictions 
regarding use of property by tax-exempt organizations and government entities found in 
sections 50(b)(3) and (4)(A)(i); and (2) by treating any property with respect to which 
such credit is determined as used in a trade or business of the applicable entity.
Proposed §1.6417-2(c)(2) would have elaborated on the effect of the “trade or 
business” rule in section 6417(d)(2) and proposed §1.6417-2(c)(1)(ii).  Proposed 
§1.6417-2(c)(2)(i) would have allowed tax-exempt and government entities to take 

advantage of applicable credits even outside of the unrelated business taxable income 
context (provided other requirements are met) by allowing the entity to treat an item of 
property as if it is of a character subject to an allowance of depreciation (such as under 
sections 30C and 45W); to produce items “in the ordinary course of a trade or business 
of the taxpayer” (such as in sections 45V and 45X); and to state that an item of property 
is one for which depreciation (or amortization in lieu of depreciation) is allowable (such 
as in sections 48, 48C, and 48E).  No commenter addressed this rule, but these final 
regulations made nonsubstantive edits to this proposed version. 
Proposed §1.6417-2(c)(2)(ii) would have allowed the entity to apply the 
capitalization and accelerated depreciation rules (such as sections 167, 168, 263 and 
263A of the Code) that apply to determining the basis and the depreciation allowance 
for property used in a trade or business.  One commenter asked whether applicable 
entities can use section 266 of the Code to capitalize carrying charges.  In response, 
these final regulations add section 266 to the list of capitalization and accelerated 
depreciation rules that applicable entities can use in §1.6417-2(c)(2)(ii).
Proposed §1.6417-2(c)(2)(iii) would have made limitations on the use of credits 
generally applicable to persons engaged in the conduct of a trade or business 
applicable to the making of an elective payment election under section 6417, such as 
the at-risk rules of section 49 of the Code in the context of investment credits 
determined under sections 48, 48C, and 48E, and the passive activity rules under 
section 469 of the Code that apply to all applicable credits.  For section 49 to apply to 
investment tax credits for which an elective payment election is made, the property must 
be placed in service by an applicable entity or electing taxpayer described in section 
465(a)(1) of the Code (for example, an individual or a C corporation with respect to 
which the stock ownership requirements of section 542(a)(2) of the Code are met).  For 
section 469 to apply to applicable credits for which an elective payment election is 

made, the applicable entity or electing taxpayer would need to be described in section 
469(a)(2) (that is, an individual, estate or trust, a closely held C corporation, or a 
personal service corporation).  Thus, for any applicable entity or electing taxpayer for 
which section 49 or 469 generally applies, those limitations apply with respect to the 
determination of applicable credits for purposes under section 6417.
The proposed regulations requested comments on whether any additional 
clarification is needed regarding the application of sections 49 and 469 to applicable 
entities or electing taxpayers determining the amount of an applicable credit.  Two 
commenters asked that the final regulations clarify that section 49 does not apply to limit 
credits available to tribes or Tribal entities that use direct loan or Federal loan guarantee 
programs.  The Treasury Department and the IRS note that section 49 generally applies 
only to individuals and C corporations meeting the stock ownership requirements of 
section 542(a)(2), and that section 49 reduces the credit base only by the amount of 
nonqualified nonrecourse financing, as defined in section 49(a)(1)(D)(ii).  Both of these 
determinations are dependent on the facts and circumstances and are outside of the 
scope of these final regulations.
Proposed §1.6417-2(c)(2)(iv) would have stated that the trade or business rule 
does not create any presumption that the trade or business is related (or unrelated) to a 
tax-exempt entity’s exempt purpose.  One commenter asked whether nonprofits will 
owe tax on Solar Renewable Energy Credits (SREC) sales and how selling the SRECs 
upfront versus selling them over time might change the result.  This comment is outside 
the scope of these final regulations.  Another commenter asked that the final regulations 
provide that income from applicable credit property does not give rise to unrelated 
business income tax (UBIT).  Whether income from applicable credit property gives rise 
to UBIT is a fact-intensive inquiry under sections 511 through 514 of the Code and it is 
outside the scope of these final regulations.  As these comments do not require 

revisions to the proposed rule, these final regulations adopt the §1.6417-2(c)(2)(iv) as 
proposed.
In addition, these final regulations clarify that the trade or business rule subjects 
the applicable entity to the credit limitation that applies when there is an excess benefit, 
as described in part II.C.2 of this Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions.  
See §1.6417-2(c)(2)(v) and (c)(3)(ii).
2. Special Rule for Investment-related Credit Property Acquired with Amounts, 
Including Income from Certain Grants and Forgivable Loans, that are Exempt 
from Taxation Under Subtitle A
Proposed §1.6417-2(c)(3) would have provided a special rule for investment 
credit property acquired with amounts, including income from certain grants and 
forgivable loans, that are exempt from taxation under subtitle A (tax exempt amounts) 
and would have expanded the rule to “investment-related tax credits” (that is, to other 
credits that are determined as a percentage of a property’s basis).
The special rule stated that, for purposes of section 6417, any tax exempt 
amounts used to purchase, construct, reconstruct, erect, or otherwise acquire an 
applicable credit property described in sections 30C, 45W, 48, 48C, or 48E (investment-
related credit property) are included in basis for purposes of computing the applicable 
credit amount determined with respect to the investment-related credit property, 
regardless of whether basis is required to be reduced (in whole or in part) by such 
amounts under general tax principles.  Without this rule, applicable entities that use tax 
exempt amounts to purchase, construct, reconstruct, erect, or otherwise acquire 
investment-related credit property may not be able to take full advantage of investment-
related tax credits with respect to such property because general tax principles may 
require applicable entities to reduce the basis in such property, for general business 
credit purposes, by the amount paid for with tax exempt amounts.
This special rule, by not reducing basis for tax-exempt amounts for purposes of 

computing the applicable credit amount, conferred excess tax benefits under general 
tax principles applicable to taxable entities.  The proposed regulations contained a “no 
excess benefit” rule in proposed §1.6417-2(c)(3) to give effect to the requirement in 
section 6417(d)(2)(B) that the investment-related credit property be treated as used in a 
trade or business of an applicable entity (and thus subject to general tax principles that 
apply to taxable entities).  The proposed no excess benefit rule would have reduced the 
applicable credit amount with respect to "restricted tax exempt amounts,” which taxable 
entities are generally not entitled to include in the basis of corresponding investment-
related credit property under general tax principles, if the sum of such restricted tax-
exempt amounts plus the applicable credit exceeded the cost of the applicable credit 
property.  Specifically, proposed §1.6417-2(c)(3) would have provided that, if an 
applicable entity receives tax exempt amounts for the specific purpose of purchasing, 
constructing, reconstructing, erecting, or otherwise acquiring an investment-related 
credit property (restricted tax exempt amount), and any restricted tax exempt amounts 
plus the applicable credit otherwise determined with respect to that investment-related 
credit property exceeds the cost of the investment-related credit property, then the 
amount of the applicable credit is reduced so that the total amount of applicable credit 
plus the amount of any restricted tax exempt amounts equals the cost of investment-
related credit property.  This no excess benefit rule was a subset of the special rule for 
investment credit property acquired with tax exempt amounts in that it applied only to 
restricted tax exempt amounts; in other words, it only applied to tax exempt amounts 
that are conditioned on being used for the specific purpose of purchasing, constructing, 
reconstructing, erecting, or otherwise acquiring an investment credit property and did 
not apply to other tax exempt amounts.  Proposed §1.6417-2(c)(5) contained three 
examples illustrating these rules.
One commenter strongly supported the special rule for investment-related credit 

property acquired with income that is exempt from taxation as reasonable and 
necessary, stating that it (1) places applicable entities on similar footing as taxable 
entities with respect to impacts on basis, (2) makes funding count equally for investment 
tax credits (that are determined as a percentage of basis) and production tax credits 
(which are not tied to basis), and (3) is consistent with the purposes in section 6417.  
Several other commenters expressed appreciation for this “stackability” feature of the 
proposed regulations.
However, some commenters did not support the no excess benefit part of the 
rule, stating that section 6417 does not contain any limitation on determining the amount 
of an elective payment for an applicable credit if the applicable entity has received 
grants or forgivable loans not subject to Federal income tax.  These commenters opined 
that not only does section 6417 not authorize promulgation of such a rule, but the 
proposed rule is inconsistent with the intent of section 6417, which, in the commenters’ 
view, is generally to permit applicable entities to receive an elective payment of an 
applicable credit in an amount otherwise allowable under the Code.
These final regulations generally adopt the proposed special rule for investment-
related credit property acquired with amounts, including income from certain grants and 
forgivable loans, that are exempt from taxation, with modifications discussed in this Part 
II.C.2 of the Summary of Comments and Explanation of Provisions section.  First, these 
final regulations seek to clarify that the no excess benefit rule is a subset of the general 
rule by separating the special rule into two parts: (1) an “amounts included in basis” rule 
(allowing tax exempt amounts to count toward basis) and (2) a “no excess benefit from 
restricted tax exempt amounts” rule (not allowing restricted tax exempt amounts plus 
the amount of the credit to exceed the cost of the investment-related credit property).
With respect to the second part of the rule, the Treasury Department and the IRS 
conclude that section 6417(d)(2)(B) effectively places a limitation on determining the 

amount of an applicable credit by treating the property as being used in a trade or 
business of an applicable entity, which otherwise subjects the investment-related credit 
property and the applicable credit to general tax principles that apply to taxable entities.  
Taxable entities that receive restricted tax exempt amounts are generally required to 
reduce their basis in the corresponding investment-related credit property under general 
tax principles, which would limit the amount of the applicable credit.  While the no 
excess benefit rule does not go so far as to require basis in investment-related credit 
property to be reduced by the restricted tax exempt amount, it limits the applicable 
credit so that an applicable entity that receives a restricted tax exempt amount does not 
receive more than the cost of the investment-related credit property financed without 
those non-taxable funds.  The alternative to the no excess benefit rule would be to 
disallow restricted tax exempt amounts from counting toward the basis in investment-
related credit property (a more severe limitation), which would still give effect to section 
6417(d)(2)(B) but not accomplish the goals of the IRA as well as the no excess benefit 
rule does.  
However, these final regulations clarify the no excess benefit rule in several 
ways.  These final regulations provide that the determination of whether a tax exempt 
grant is made for the specific purpose of purchasing, constructing, reconstructing, 
erecting, or otherwise acquiring an investment-related credit property is made at the 
time the grant is awarded to the applicable entity.  (If only a portion of a tax exempt 
amount is restricted and another portion is unrestricted, then only the restricted tax 
exempt amount is considered for purposes of this rule.)
Similarly, these final regulations clarify how to treat a grant that is awarded after 
investment-related credit property is purchased, constructed, reconstructed, erected, or 
otherwise acquired.  One commenter requested clarification of whether the excessive 
payment addition to tax may apply if an applicable entity received a Federal grant after 

the elective payment election submission.  Although the comment was unclear, it 
appears that the commenter was asking whether a grant received after the acquisition 
of investment-related credit property might be considered a “restricted tax exempt 
amount” that could affect the amount of the applicable credit claimed on the annual 
return.  Similarly, two commenters asked that applicable entities be allowed to self-
identify during the pre-filing registration process or the elective payment election 
process, or both, if they are preparing to apply for a Federal grant that could potentially 
impact their elective payment amount.  These commenters stated that an entity could 
then amend its return based on whether the grant was received to better determine if 
the entity should receive the full elective payment amount or be required to recalculate 
the elective payment amount so as not incur an addition to tax due to a possible 
excessive payment in subsequent taxable years.
A grant awarded after acquisition of the property is generally not a restricted tax 
exempt amount because a restricted tax exempt amount is one made for the specific 
purpose of purchasing, constructing, reconstructing, erecting, or otherwise acquiring an 
investment-related credit property and, in the commenters’ examples, the applicable 
entity would already have acquired the investment-related credit property before 
receiving the grant funds.  However, to avoid allowing taxpayers to circumvent the no 
excess benefit rule by acquiring applicable credit property in cases in which the receipt 
of the grant is assured if an application is made and the applicable entity only needs to 
finance the purchase until the money is received, these final regulations provide that a 
grant awarded after acquisition of the property is a restricted tax exempt amount if 
approval of the grant was perfunctory and the amount of the grant was virtually assured 
at the time of application.
Commenters asked whether the credit reduction applies to a loan that is not a 
forgivable loan or to a taxable loan.  The Treasury Department and the IRS clarify that 

loans that need to be repaid are not tax exempt amounts and, thus, will not be restricted 
tax exempt amounts for purposes of this rule.  Commenters also asked about the timing 
of the credit reduction and whether there is any potential tax credit recapture if a loan for 
a project that was not intended to be forgivable is later forgiven by the lender.   In 
response, these final regulations add a sentence clarifying that the determination of 
whether a loan is made for the specific purpose of purchasing, constructing, 
reconstructing, erecting, or otherwise acquiring an investment-related credit property, 
and whether forgiveness of that loan is contingent upon the specific purpose being 
satisfied, is made at the time the loan is approved.
Several commenters did not appear to understand that the no excess benefit rule 
is a subset of the special rule for investment-related credit property because it applies 
only to restricted tax-exempt amounts.  For example, one commenter opined that, if an 
applicable entity’s general revenue (from charitable donations) is not taxable and does 
not reduce the credit amount, then the concern of an excessive benefit for specific 
grants is unfounded.  Multiple commenters expressed confusion by the definitions in the 
rule, asking for further definition (or a safe harbor) of “restricted tax exempt amount” or 
for a definition of “unrestricted funds.”  Restricted gifts are distinguishable from 
unrestricted gifts because of the restrictions donors place on the use of the funds.  In 
response to these comments, however, these final regulations add a sentence to the 
end of §1.6417-2(c)(3)(ii) stating that the no excess benefit rule does not apply if the tax 
exempt amount is not received for the specific purpose of purchasing, constructing, 
reconstructing, erecting, or otherwise acquiring a property eligible for an investment-
related credit.  This sentence includes two examples of a tax exempt amount that is not 
considered to be a restricted tax exempt amount: (1) a tax exempt amount from the 
organization’s general funds and (2) a tax exempt amount the use of which is not 
restricted to the purpose of purchasing, constructing, reconstructing, erecting, or 

otherwise acquiring an investment-related credit property (such as purchasing an 
electric vehicle) and could be used for any of several different applicable credit 
properties (such as purchasing an electric vehicle or purchasing solar panels) or can be 
put to other purposes (such as purchasing an electric vehicle or making a building more 
energy efficient).  In addition, these final regulations add an example with unrestricted 
funds to clarify that unrestricted funds do not implicate the no excess benefit rule.
One commenter thought that the no excess benefit rule is administratively 
impractical and will lead certain applicable entities and their donors to structure 
donations as unrestricted grants (with an unenforceable expectation that the grant will 
still be used to fund the energy property).  The commenter stated that this lack of a 
legally enforceable obligation by donors will lead to more opportunities for the misuse of 
funds and further frustrate Congressional intent to encourage applicable entities to 
actually build and operate energy property.  The Treasury Department and the IRS 
recognize that unrestricted funds are not impacted by the no excess benefit rule; thus, 
taxpayers could structure around the no excess benefit rule by requesting unrestricted 
funds rather than restricted ones.  However, these final regulations maintain the 
decision that, when a restricted tax exempt amount plus a general business credit 
exceeds the cost of the applicable credit property that was purchased with the restricted 
tax exempt amount, then the no excess benefit rule is reasonable and necessary, gives 
effect to section 6417(d)(2)(B), and is consistent with general tax principles.
In response to the commenters asking that applicable entities be allowed to self-
identify if they are preparing to apply for a Federal grant that could potentially impact 
their elective payment amount, as provided in part V of this Summary of Comments and 
Explanation of Revisions, §1.6417-5(b)(5)(vii)(E) provides that an applicable entity must 
provide information on the source of funds the taxpayer used to acquire the property as 
part of the pre-filing registration process if the applicable credit property is an 

investment-related credit property.  However, the reporting of an actual credit amount is 
done on the annual tax return.  In addition, if an applicable entity makes a valid elective 
payment election but later determines the amount was calculated incorrectly, these final 
regulations provide the opportunity to file an amended return or AAR to make the 
appropriate adjustments to the elective payment amount.  See part II.B.2 of this 
Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions.  As described in part VI of this 
Summary of Comments and Explanation of Revisions, these final regulations clarify 
that, if an applicable entity or electing taxpayer amends its tax return or files an AAR to 
properly adjust an excessive elective payment amount before the IRS opens an 
examination, then the excessive payment provisions of section 6417(d)(6) and §1.6417-
6(a) would not apply.
A commenter recommended that the final regulations limit or eliminate the 
proposed rule that tax-exempt funds raised to pay for the cost of a system must be 
subtracted from the installed system cost before calculating the value of the investment 
tax credit.  The commenter’s summary of the proposed rule is not accurate.  The excess 
benefit determination is made after the investment tax credit is calculated and reduces 
the amount of the calculated credit only to the extent that an excess benefit was created 
by any restricted tax exempt amounts used to fund the purchase.
One commenter asked how the credit reduction relates to tax-exempt bond 
financing (which, for certain credits, results in a reduction of the credit amount).  The 
Treasury Department and the IRS confirm that the no excess benefit rule applies after 
application of any rule, such as sections 45(b)(3), 45Q(f)(8), 45V(d)(3), 45Y(g)(8), 
48(a)(4), and 48E(d)(2), that relates to the determination of the underlying applicable 
credit.
A few commenters said that only Federal grants should be considered in 
applying the no excess benefit rule.  The Treasury Department and the IRS have 

concluded that all restricted tax exempt amounts should be treated the same way, as 
any could lead to an excess benefit.
Two commenters stated that an applicable credit property financed with 
“recoverable grants” should not result in the reduction of the applicable credit, stating 
that recoverable grants are similar to loans although some nonprofits and schools 
cannot enter into loan agreements.  These final regulations do not adopt this comment 
because, without knowing the conditions upon which the grant proceeds are returned to 
the grantor, it is not possible to conclude whether such amounts would be considered 
restricted tax exempt amounts.  For example, if a grantor requires return of the grant 
proceeds to the extent of an excess benefit created, the proceeds required to be repaid 
would likely not be considered a restricted tax exempt amount for purposes of §1.6417-
2(c)(3), as those amounts are more similar to debt repayment.
One commenter asked that the final regulations provide more specific information 
about “other amounts generally exempt from taxation under subtitle A,” stating that all 
revenues earned by section 501(c) entities that are not subject to the unrelated 
business income provisions of sections 511 through 514 are generally exempt from tax.  
The commenter noted that Examples 2 and 3 in the proposed regulations contained an 
exempt organization’s own unrestricted funds, which the commenter presumed was 
from income exempt from taxation under subtitle A.  The Treasury Department and the 
IRS agree that the types of income mentioned by the commenter are examples of 
income “that is exempt from taxation under subtitle A” that are intended to be included 
in basis for purposes of computing the applicable credit amount determined with respect 
to the applicable credit property, regardless of whether basis is required to be reduced 
(in whole or in part) by such amounts under general tax principles.  However, the 
Treasury Department and the IRS have identified that certain governmental entities, 
including Indian tribal governments, may have income that is excluded from Federal 

income taxation rather than exempt from taxation under subtitle A.  The intent of the 
special rule was to have all of this income count towards the basis of investment-related 
credit property.  Thus, these final regulations add “or otherwise excluded from taxation” 
to the text of §1.6417-2(c)(3).
A commenter asked how the special rule works if grant or loan proceeds are paid 
directly to the contractor building the property, providing an example in which 
(1) another entity helped cover the cost of the applicable credit property for the 
applicable entity by paying a vendor directly, and (2) the remaining funds were provided 
by a lender to the applicable entity, with the lender providing the proceeds of the loan 
directly to the vendor.  The commenter asked whether these arrangements would affect 
the cost basis for determining the credit amount, which could then impact the applicable 
entity’s ability to make an elective payment election.  These final regulations do not 
address this question since it requires analysis of the details surrounding the contractual 
arrangements (for example, the terms of the gift and the terms of the loan), as the 
results depend on the underlying facts.
One commenter asked whether there are any restrictions on the use of elective 
payment amounts once they are received by the applicable entity; for example, whether 
they can be used to repay grant match requirements or to pay off debt used specifically 
to purchase applicable credit property.  Section 6417 imposes no restriction on the use 
an applicable entity makes of the elective payment amount after it has been paid to the 
entity (although the entity bears the risk that any excessive payments are subject to 
repayment plus a 20-percent tax).
3. Credits Must be Determined with Respect to the Applicable Entity or Electing 
Taxpayer
Proposed §1.6417-2(c)(4) would have stated that any credit for which an election 
is made under section 6417(a) must have been “determined with respect to” the 
applicable entity or electing taxpayer, meaning that the applicable entity or electing 

taxpayer must own the underlying eligible credit property or, in the case of section 45X, 
conduct the activities giving rise to the underlying eligible credit.
7
  This proposed rule, 
which is consistent with the proposed regulations under section 6418, would prohibit an 
applicable entity or electing taxpayer from making an election under section 6417(a) for 
credits transferred pursuant to section 6418, transferred pursuant to section 45Q(f)(3), 
acquired by a lessee from a lessor by means of an election to pass through the credit to 
a lessee under former section 48(d) (pursuant to section 50(d)(5)), owned by a third 
party, or otherwise not determined directly with respect to the applicable entity or 
electing taxpayer, which the proposed regulations labeled “chaining.” 
The preamble to the proposed regulations noted several potential obstacles to 
permitting chaining, but requested comments on any limited situations in which 
exceptions to this proposed rule may be appropriate because they are consistent with 
the text, design, and intent of the IRA, while also ensuring that such exceptions are not 
subject to fraud or abuse.
i. Credits transferred pursuant to section 6418
One commenter agreed with the proposed rule, stating that chaining will likely 
create practical and administrative challenges and make the applicable credits more 
vulnerable to fraud and abuse.  However, multiple commenters stated that chaining is 
consistent with the text, design, and intent of the IRA and requested that it be allowed.  
Some commenters advocated for enacting a limited exception tailored to certain 
situations or limited to certain types of taxpayers, such as (1) a taxpayer whose receipt 
of credits is directly tied to the taxpayer’s involvement in the manufacturing process and 
its contractual agreements with third-party producers under section 45X, if not 
considered a producer under section 45X; (2) public-private partnership arrangements 
7
 The section 45X credit requires that the taxpayer produce eligible components.  Thus, an applicable 
entity or electing taxpayer must produce eligible components to claim the credit.

under which a governmental entity or nonprofit entity can be treated as the owner of the 
project while receiving private capital from the private, for-profit partner to finance the 
project; (3) governmental entities and unrelated section 501(c)(3) entities on whose 
premises the project is located; (4) green banks and other public financing entities; 
(5) governmental agencies; (6) public power systems that entered into a long-term 
power purchase agreement with respect to the electricity to be produced at a qualifying 
facility; (7) entities conducting the activity that do not own the applicable credit property; 
(8) a transferor and transferee that are joint tenants or partners in a partnership 
completing a single return, or cross-referencing returns, in which the transfer and 
elective payment elections are made concurrently on the due date of the return (or later 
filing date under a valid extension); or (9) in cases in which an ERISA plan, entity 
holding plan assets, or an entity in which an ERISA plan or entity holding plan assets is 
the primary equity holder, the transferee would not own more than 50 percent of the 
seller, the transferee does the same due diligence required of all transferees, the 
transferee pays a minimum of 90 percent of the face value of the credit in cash, and, if 
the purchasing ERISA plan has an indirect interest in the proceeds of the sale, it is not 
permitted to buy more than the commensurate share of the proceeds it would have 
received if the seller had elected to sell the tax credit to another person or entity with no 
relationship to the seller.  One commenter asked that any rule prohibiting chaining be 
limited to potentially abusive situations in which a principal purpose of the structure is to 
avoid the transfer election rules or otherwise allow taxpayers that are not applicable 
entities to make elective payment elections.
After considering comments, the Treasury Department and the IRS have 
determined that sections 6417 and 6418, read together, are most straightforwardly 
understood as creating two separate, mutually exclusive regimes regarding credit 
monetization.  While the Treasury Department and the IRS acknowledge that no 

specific language in section 6417 or 6418 directly prohibits chaining, not permitting 
chaining allows for more straightforward application of the statute as a whole.  This 
interpretation reads “determined with respect to” in both sections 6417 and 6418 to 
require the entity to own the underlying applicable credit property with respect to which 
the applicable credit is determined and conduct the activities giving rise to the 
applicable credit or, in the case of section 45X, for which ownership of applicable credit 
property is not required, to be considered (under the section 45X regulations) the 
taxpayer with respect to which the section 45X credit is determined.
The Treasury Department and the IRS also remain concerned about the 
administrability of chaining and the scope for fraud and abuse.  The Treasury 
Department and the IRS considered commenters’ suggestions on how chaining might 
be limited to certain types of taxpayers or certain situations.  While there may be ways 
in which limiting chaining to certain types of entities or those performing certain activities 
could potentially reduce risks of fraud and abuse, the Treasury Department and the IRS 
have concluded, based on the comments, statutory text, and available information, that 
the IRS would face substantial challenges in attempting to distinguish those types of 
taxpayers or situations from other applicable entities or other situations.  For example, 
the existing pre-filing registration process and portal, a key anti-fraud and anti-abuse 
feature specifically authorized by sections 6417 and 6418, are not capable of 
administering such distinctions as, for example, the proposed requisite relationships 
between the parties, many of which would require assessments of particular 
circumstances or other fact-dependent inquiries.  The Treasury Department and the IRS 
have not determined how the proposed distinctions or criteria could be sufficiently 
verified in an administratively reasonable manner during the pre-filing registration 
process.  Thus, based on available information, the Treasury Department and the IRS 
could not conclude that any chaining rule could be limited in the manner taxpayers 

proposed.
Furthermore, any chaining rule would need ancillary rules to address operational 
differences between the two statutory provisions and complications that would 
necessarily arise from chaining.  For example, absent ancillary rules to address 
differences between the two statutes, there would be inconsistencies in the 
requirements for elective payment elections made by applicable entities for applicable 
credits that are determined with respect to the applicable entity and elective payment 
elections made by applicable entities for transferred credits (even if a taxpayer was 
making both elections for the same type of credit).  Transfer elections under section 
6418 with respect to credits determined under sections 45, 45Q, 45X, 45V, and 45Y are 
made on an annual basis, whereas elective payment elections under section 6417 with 
respect to these credits are made for a multi-year period and are irrevocable.  
Additionally, transfer elections under section 6418 are permitted to be made for a 
portion of eligible credits determined with respect to an eligible credit property, whereas 
section 6417 does not on its face permit partial elections.  A partnership making the 
election under section 6417 must hold the applicable credit property “directly,” language 
that is not a clear fit for transferred credits.  If a chaining rule were permitted, the rules in 
section 6418 would need to accommodate the election requirements in section 6417, 
but the Treasury Department and the IRS could not determine, based on comments 
received and available information, how the differences between elective payment 
elections and transfer elections could be addressed in an administratively reasonable 
manner.
Similarly, an applicable entity that is both a transferee under section 6418 and an 
applicable entity under section 6417 could be subject to both the excessive credit 
transfer addition to tax under section 6418(g)(2) and the excessive payment addition to 
tax under section 6417(d)(6).  None of the comments addressed how the excessive 

credit transfer or excessive payment additions to tax should apply in the case of a 
chaining rule, including whether there would be authority to avoid application of both 
additions to tax by the same applicable entity.
Additionally, none of the comments addressed how the basis reduction and 
recapture rules under sections 6418(g)(3) and 6417(g) would work in the case of a 
chaining rule, given that transferred credits presumably would need to be treated as 
“determined with respect to” the applicable entity for purposes of section 6417(g).
A chaining rule would also create administrative challenges with regard to the 
pre-filing registration process that are separate from the challenge of potentially 
distinguishing types of entities or situations, and which were not addressed in 
comments.  A facility or property intended to produce credits that would be chained 
would appear to need to be registered twice – first, under section 6418 as an eligible 
credit property and second, under section 6417 as an applicable credit property – which 
would result in two different registration numbers with respect to the same facility or 
property.  Both of these registrations would presumably need to occur after the 
eligible/applicable credit property was placed in service, but before either taxpayer filed 
their annual tax return.
Finally, the Treasury Department and the IRS remain concerned that a rule 
allowing for chaining could increase risks of fraudulent elective payment elections as 
well as fraudulent transfers of credits (such as transferring credits that have not been 
earned by the transferor and therefore do not exist), given a range of factors including 
the limited time before filing season that the IRS would have to verify information as part 
of the pre-filing registration process, the transferor’s incentives to shift risk to the 
transferee, and the difficulties of recovering monies once already paid out to applicable 
entities.  Comments received by the Treasury Department and the IRS have not 
provided information that addresses these concerns.

Thus, these final regulations adopt the rule as proposed.  However, the Treasury 
Department and the IRS will continue to consider potential chaining rules that would 
address these concerns and be consistent with the statutory framework, as well as the 
legislative purpose, of sections 6417 and 6418.  In particular, the Treasury Department 
and the IRS will be monitoring uptake and efficiency of the market for transferred credits 
and whether additional or different approaches may be useful to improve the functioning 
of the market to ensure that the provisions are functioning consistent with Congress’s 
intent in enacting the IRA.  The Treasury Department and the IRS will also be 
monitoring uptake of the elective payment election, including whether additional or 
different regulatory approaches may be useful to ensure broad access to the clean 
energy tax credits consistent with Congress’s intent in enacting the IRA.  At the same 
time, the Treasury Department and the IRS will be monitoring the risk of improper 
payments with respect to sections 6417 and 6418 and will consider additional regulatory 
or administrative action to reduce such risk as experience is gained with respect to 
these novel provisions.
ii. Credits allowed pursuant to section 45Q(f)(3)
As described in part II.C.3 of this Summary of Comments and Explanation of 
Revisions, proposed §1.6417-2(c)(4) would have provided that no election may be 
made under section 6417(a) for credits transferred pursuant to section 45Q(f)(3).
Multiple commenters opined that section 45Q credits transferred pursuant to 
section 45Q(f)(3)(B) should be considered “determined with respect to” the transferee.  
Commenters posited that this is the correct result because those transferees conduct 
carbon capture activities necessary to give rise to a section 45Q credit, citing the 
language in proposed §1.6417-2(c)(4) that “[a]n applicable credit is determined with 
respect to an applicable entity or electing taxpayer in cases where the applicable entity 
or electing taxpayer owns the underlying eligible credit property or, if ownership is not 

required, otherwise conducts the activities giving rise to the underlying eligible credit.” 
Commenters further stated that performing those carbon capture activities makes them 
distinguishable from taxpayers that are transferred a credit under section 6418 or an 
election under section 50(d)(5).
The Treasury Department and the IRS have concluded that a taxpayer that is 
transferred a section 45Q credit as a result of an election under section 45Q(f)(3) is not 
the taxpayer with respect to which the section 45Q credit is determined.  Under section 
45Q(f)(3)(A)(ii), a section 45Q credit is attributable to the person that owns the carbon 
capture equipment and physically or contractually ensures the capture and disposal, 
utilization, or use as a tertiary injectant of such qualified carbon oxide (emphasis 
added).  Further, under §1.45Q-1(h)(3), it is the taxpayer described in §1.45Q-1(h)(1) to 
whom the section 45Q credit is attributable (electing taxpayer), that may elect to allow 
the person that enters into a contract with the electing taxpayer to dispose of the 
qualified carbon oxide (disposer), utilize the qualified carbon oxide (utilizer), or use the 
qualified carbon oxide as a tertiary injectant (injector) to claim the credit (credit claimant) 
(section 45Q(f)(3)(B) election).  Contrary to commenters’ assertions, it is not sufficient 
for a party to only conduct carbon capture activities to be eligible for a section 45Q 
credit.  Further, the requirement of ownership in the section 45Q statute and regulations 
means the commenters’ argument that the language in §1.6417-2(c)(4) allows a section 
45Q credit to be determined with respect to an applicable entity or electing taxpayer 
when the party “otherwise conducts the activities giving rise to the underlying applicable 
credit” is misplaced.  That language in §1.6417-2(c)(4) applies only in the case of an 
applicable credit for which ownership of property is not required, which is not the case 
with respect to a section 45Q credit.  Thus, these final regulations clarify in §1.6417-
2(c)(4) that the only applicable credit for which ownership is not required is the section 
45X credit.  While the activities of a contractor may be necessary for a section 45Q 

credit to be determined, ultimately, the credit is attributable to and determined by the 
person that both owns the equipment and physically or contractually ensures the 
capture and disposal, injection, or utilization of such qualified carbon oxide.  Thus, these 
final regulations adopt the proposed regulations without change on this issue.
Other commenters implied that a section 45Q(f)(3) election is not a transfer, just 
the attribution of the credit to the claimant.  The Treasury Department and the IRS note 
that the relevant standard under section 6417 for making an elective payment election is 
that a section 45Q credit must be determined with respect to the applicable entity or 
electing taxpayer.  Thus, while the proposed regulations used the term “transfer,” the 
result would have remained unchanged if the proposed regulations used the term 
‘attributed’ in referring to a party that receives the credit as a result of a section 
45Q(f)(3)(B) election.  To maintain consistency with §1.45Q-1(h)(3), these final 
regulations use the word “allowed,” but the result is unchanged from the proposed 
regulations.
One commenter asked that, in the case of a taxpayer that is registering a single 
process train for purposes of a section 45Q credit and will make a section 45Q(f)(3)(B) 
election to allow all or a portion of that credit to disposers/utilizers, the final regulations 
require information about such election, as well as an acknowledgment by the owner of 
the single process train that the disposer(s)/utilizer(s) may make a section 6417 election 
for its portion of section 45Q credit allowed, using the registration number obtained by 
the owner of the single process train.  As described previously, a section 45Q credit that 
is received as the result of a section 45Q(f)(3)(B) election is not determined with respect 
to the recipient, and therefore the recipient is ineligible to make a section 6417 election 
and has no need to complete pre-filing registration.
Commenters stated, citing Rev. Rul. 2021-13, 2021-30 IRB 152, that a taxpayer 
does not need to own every component of a single process train to claim a section 45Q 

credit.  The Treasury Department and the IRS agree that guidance under section 45Q 
does not require a taxpayer to own every component of a single process train and have 
revised the language under §1.6417-1(e)(3) (defining applicable credit property with 
respect to the section 45Q credit) accordingly.
iii. Credits acquired by a lessee from a lessor by means of an election to pass 
through the credit to a lessee under former section 48(d) (pursuant to section 
50(d)(5))
Several commenters stated that tribes cannot monetize their elective payment 
amounts by making transfer elections under section 6418.
8
  These commenters stated 
that tribes should thus be able to structure projects through sale-leasebacks or inverted 
leases, which would allow tribes to retain ownership of the project while a third party 
receives tax benefits in exchange for contributing capital to the project.
The proposed regulations did not specifically address sale-leaseback 
transactions under section 50(d)(4), and the Treasury Department and the IRS have 
determined that adopting an explicit rule with respect to sale-leaseback transactions in 
these final regulations is not necessary.  Such a rule is unnecessary because a sale-
leaseback transaction under section 50(d)(4) is one in which a purchaser/lessor of 
investment credit property owns the underlying property with respect to which an 
applicable credit is determined.  In that case, provided all of the applicable rules are 
met, because the applicable credit is determined with respect to applicable credit 
property owned and treated as originally placed in service by the purchaser/lessor, the 
purchaser/lessor can make an elective payment election with respect to the property 
under section 6417.
With respect to inverted leases, the Treasury Department and the IRS 
8
 While it is true that section 6418(f)(2) defines “eligible taxpayer” for purposes of transfer election 
eligibility as “any taxpayer which is not described in section 6417(d)(1)(A)” (and thus an Indian tribal 
government (including agencies and instrumentalities) described in section 6417(d)(1)(A)(iv) and §6417-
1(c)(3) and -1(k) would not be eligible to make a transfer election), a Tribal entity that is not described in 
section 6417(d)(1)(A) would be eligible to make a transfer election under section 6418.

understand the commenters to be referring to an election to pass through the applicable 
credit to a lessee under former section 48(d) (pursuant to section 50(d)(5)).  The 
commenters pointed out that a rule allowing the lessee to make a section 6417 election 
with respect to a credit would allow tribes to retain ownership of the project while a third-
party receives tax benefits in exchange for contributing capital to the project.  There is a 
distinction between sale-leaseback transactions under section 50(d)(4) and lease-
passthrough elections under former section 48 (pursuant to section 50(d)(5)).  In the 
latter case, it is the lessor that is the party with respect to which the credit is determined, 
and not the lessee that is allowed to claim the credit as a result of the election.  
Therefore, the lessee does not meet the requirement of section 6417(a), which requires 
the applicable credit to be determined with respect to the applicable entity making the 
elective payment election.  The Treasury Department and the IRS have concluded that 
the rationale underlying the proposed rule is correct.  Thus, these final regulations adopt 
the proposed rule without change.
iv. Ownership
Proposed §1.6417-2(c)(4) would have provided that applicable credits must be 
determined with respect to the applicable entity or electing taxpayer, and further 
explained that an applicable credit is determined with respect to an applicable entity or 
electing taxpayer in cases in which the applicable entity or electing taxpayer owns the 
underlying applicable credit property or, if ownership is not required, otherwise conducts 
the activities giving rise to the underlying applicable credit.  Commenters addressed the 
ownership aspect of this proposed rule.  A commenter asked for clarity on the types of 
activities that would be required to give rise to the underlying applicable credit and 
whether, if the electing taxpayer owns the property for which the applicable credit is 
determined, they are also required to conduct activities giving rise to the underlying 
applicable credit.  This commenter stated that property owners often contract with a 

third-party for operations and maintenance.  This commenter also asked for clarification 
on whether property ownership is sufficient to satisfy any other requirements.  Lastly, 
the commenter requested additional information on the types of documentation needed 
to establish ownership of the property.
It is generally outside of the scope of these final regulations to address the types 
of activities required to determine the underlying applicable credits.  However, to help 
clarify, these final regulations specify that the applicable entity or electing taxpayer must 
both own the underlying applicable credit property and conduct the activities giving rise 
to the applicable credit or, in the case of a section 45X credit for which ownership of 
applicable credit property is not required, to be considered (under the section 45X 
regulations) the taxpayer with respect to which the section 45X credit is determined.  
That is, with respect to all of the applicable credits, with the exception of the section 45X 
credit, ownership of qualified property is required.  It is also true that, in order to be 
eligible for an applicable credit, it is necessary to first complete activities required by the 
Code section(s) relevant to the determination of the applicable credit.  To the extent that 
an applicable entity or electing taxpayer contracts with a third party for operation or 
maintenance of the property, the applicable entity or electing taxpayer must meet the 
applicable credit requirements for the credit to be determined with respect to such entity 
or taxpayer.  Lastly, with respect to additional information on documentation necessary 
for establishing ownership, the determination will be made based on the regulations for 
the particular applicable credit or bonus credit amount as well as Federal income tax 
principles.  Ultimately, the principle incorporated into these final regulations, which is 
based on language in section 6417(a), is that the applicable credit must have been 
determined with respect to the applicable entity or electing taxpayer making the elective 
payment election.
 One commenter asked that the final regulations contain a safe harbor for 

determining the Federal tax owner of the tax credit eligible project and recommended 
the safe harbor under section 142(b) of the Code as a model.  Section 142(b) requires 
certain facilities financed with tax-exempt bonds to be owned by a governmental unit.  
The safe harbor under section 142(b) treats property that is subject to a lease, a 
management contract, or other similar operating agreement to be treated as owned by 
the governmental unit under specified conditions.  Specifically, the lessee (or manager 
or operator) must make an irrevocable election not to claim depreciation or an 
investment credit with respect to the property; the term of the agreement must not 
exceed 80 percent of the reasonably expected economic life of the property; and the 
lessee (or manager or operator) must have no option to purchase the property other 
than at fair market value as of the time the option is exercised.  The commenter 
proposed language for a safe harbor for purposes of section 6417 that included 
language nearly identical to that under section 142(b) but that also included a 
requirement that the applicable entity own the property under State or local law.  These 
final regulations do not adopt the commenter’s proposal because ownership is 
determined based on general Federal tax principles, including any requirements 
applicable to the relevant applicable credit.  
D. Denial of double benefit
Section 6417(a) allows an applicable entity or electing taxpayer other than a 
partnership or S corporation to be treated as making a payment against the tax imposed 
by subtitle A for the taxable year with respect to which such credit was determined 
equal to the amount of such credit.  Section 6417(c)(1)(A) provides that, for an electing 
taxpayer that is a partnership or S corporation, the Secretary will make a payment to 
such partnership or S corporation with respect to a credit determined with respect to 
applicable credit property held directly by the partnership or S corporation equal to the 
amount of such credit.  Sections 6417(e) and (c)(1)(B) each provide that such credit is 

reduced to zero and, for any other purposes of the Code, is deemed to have been 
allowed to such entity for such taxable year.  Section 6417(h) provides that the 
Secretary must issue guidance necessary to carry out the purposes of section 6417, 
including guidance to ensure that the amount of the payment (in the case of an electing 
taxpayer that is a partnership or S corporation) or deemed payment (in the case of all 
other electing taxpayers and applicable entities) made under section 6417 is 
commensurate with the amount of the credit that would be otherwise allowable 
(determined without regard to section 38(c)).
Proposed §1.6417-2(e)(2) and (3) would have addressed the methodology for 
determining the elective payment election amount and reducing the applicable credit to 
zero while treating the applicable credit as allowed for the taxable year for all other 
purposes of the Code with respect to applicable entities and electing taxpayers other 
than partnerships or S corporations as provided in section 6417(e).  The methodology 
with respect to a payment made to a partnership or S corporation is described in part IV 
of this Summary of Contents and Explanation of Revisions.
Under the proposed regulations, an applicable entity or electing taxpayer (other 
than an electing taxpayer that is a partnership or S corporation) making an elective 
payment election would have applied section 6417(e) by taking the following steps.  
First, the taxpayer would have computed the amount of the Federal income tax liability 
(if any) for the taxable year, without regard to the GBC, that is payable on the due date 
of the return (without regard to extensions), and the amount of the Federal income tax 
liability that may be offset by GBCs pursuant to the limitation based on the amount of 
tax under section 38.  Second, the taxpayer would have computed the allowed amount 
of GBC carryforwards carried to the taxable year plus the amount of current year GBCs 
(including current applicable credits) allowed for the taxable year under section 38 (that 
is, in accordance with all the rules in section 38, including the ordering rules provided in 

section 38(d)).  Since the election would have been required to be made on an original 
return, any business credit carrybacks would not have been considered in determining 
the elective payment amount for the taxable year.  Third, the taxpayer would have 
applied the GBCs allowed for the taxable year as computed in step 2, including those 
attributable to applicable credits as GBCs, against the tax liability computed in step 1.  
Fourth, the taxpayer would have identified the amount of any excess or unused current 
year business credit, as defined under section 39 of the Code, attributable to current 
year applicable credit(s) for which the applicable entity is making an elective payment 
election.  The amount of such unused applicable credits would have been treated as a 
payment against the tax imposed by subtitle A for the taxable year with respect to which 
such credits are determined (rather than having them available for carryback or 
carryover) (net elective payment amount).  Fifth, the taxpayer would have reduced the 
applicable credits for which an elective payment election is made by the amount (if any) 
allowed as a GBC under section 38 for the taxable year, as provided in step 3, and by 
the net elective payment amount (if any) that is treated as a payment against tax, as 
provided in step 4, which results in the applicable credits being reduced to zero.
Proposed §1.6417-2(e)(3) would have provided, consistent with section 6417(e), 
that the full amount of the applicable credits for which an elective payment election is 
made is deemed to have been allowed for all other purposes of the Code, including, but 
not limited to, the basis reduction and recapture rules imposed by section 50 and 
calculation of any underpayment of estimated tax under sections 6654 and 6655 of the 
Code.  The proposed regulations gave several examples illustrating these rules.  
The proposed regulations requested comments on whether future guidance 
should expand or clarify the methodology that an applicable entity follows to compute its 
elective payment amount.  The proposed regulations also requested comments on 
additional Code sections under which it may be necessary to consider the applicable 

credit to have been deemed to have been allowed for the taxable year in which an 
elective payment election is made.
Multiple commenters asked that the final regulations revise or not include the 
section 38 ordering rule in §1.6417-2(e)(2).  Commenters stated that, under the 
proposed ordering rules, if a taxpayer reaches the section 38(c) limitation using prior 
year credit carryforwards and current year applicable credits, which may be considered 
used ahead of some other non-applicable credits based on the section 38(d) ordering 
rule, then the taxpayer would lose the benefit of treating the applicable credit as a 
payment because it could have used the non-applicable credits to reach the section 
38(c) limitation.  Instead of receiving the benefits of treating the applicable credit as a 
payment, the taxpayer could be required to carry otherwise usable non-applicable credit 
GBCs back or forward to other taxable years.  These commenters suggested that the 
elective payment amount should not be reduced if a taxpayer has non-applicable credits 
that can be used to reduce tax liability to the section 38(c) limitation.  A commenter 
thought specifically that the language in section 6417(e) should not be read as a 
reference to the GBC ordering rules. The commenter thought that the proposed rule’s 
application of the GBC ordering rules goes beyond merely addressing a double benefit 
issue and effectively limits the availability of direct payments, contrary to the statutory 
language in section 6417.  The commenter thought that the proper application of section 
6417(e) is demonstrated in proposed §1.6417-2(e)(3) – for example, deeming the 
applicable credit as allowed for purposes of basis reduction, recapture rules, and 
estimated tax calculations.
The Treasury Department and the IRS note that the fact pattern raised by 
commenters will have no relevance, and application of the rules in §1.6417-2(e) should 
be straightforward, for any applicable entities without taxable income to offset or with 
only applicable credits.  However, the Treasury Department and the IRS agree with 

commenters that the GBC ordering rules can result in a lowered elective payment 
amount for other applicable entities and/or electing taxpayers; thus, these final 
regulations include changes to address that result.
Section 6417(a) provides that the applicable entity will be treated as making a 
payment against tax equal to the amount of the credit, and section 6417(d)(4) 
references such payment, as noted by commenters.  It is section 6417(e) that creates a 
bifurcated treatment for purposes of the Code by reducing the credit to zero, but for any 
other purposes under the Code, deeming the applicable credit to have been allowed to 
such entity for such taxable year.
In reviewing these provisions, the Treasury Department and the IRS have 
determined that section 38 is the section of the Code with respect to which applicable 
credits should be reduced to zero as provided under section 6417(e), other than as 
explained in this paragraph.  As section 38 is the operative provision under which all of 
the applicable credits would be taken into account and allowed to reduce tax liability, it 
is reasonable to read the no double benefit rule in section 6417(e) to reduce the 
applicable credits to zero for purposes of section 38.  This prevents a direct double 
benefit that could be achieved from claiming the credits.  However, preventing such a 
double benefit does not require reducing the applicable credit to zero for purposes of 
section 38 to the extent an applicable credit is needed to reduce tax liability up to the 
section 38(c) limitation.  In addition, reducing an applicable credit to zero in such 
situations would unnecessarily disadvantage an applicable entity or electing taxpayer 
filing on extension by preventing them from claiming the applicable credit as a current 
year GBC.  This is because, to the extent applied as a credit, the applicable credit will 
reduce tax liability as of the due date of the return, while the elective payment amount is 
not treated as being made until the later of the due date of the return or the date of 
filing.  See section 6417(d)(4).  Treating the entire applicable credit as zero in the case 

of an applicable entity or electing taxpayer filing on extension could result in more tax 
due on the due date of the return and, if not paid, would result in the applicable entity or 
electing taxpayer owing interest and could result in penalties assessed against the 
taxpayer.  
The proposed rules accounted for this situation, and as noted by a commenter, 
helped mitigate any potential estimated tax penalties if amounts owed were not paid by 
the due date.  No commenters objected to this aspect of the proposed rule.  Thus, the 
Treasury Department and the IRS conclude that these final regulations should treat the 
applicable credit as a credit for section 38 in the limited situation that the applicable 
credit is needed to reduce tax liability up to the section 38(c) limitation.  It is also noted 
that, for an applicable entity or electing taxpayer that is filing and making an election by 
the due date of their return, there should be no difference in outcome between treating 
an applicable credit resulting in an elective payment as reduced to $0 for section 38, or 
as a credit that reduces tax liability up to the section 38(c) limitation and a payment 
beyond the section 38(c) limitation.
Based on these conclusions, the Treasury Department and the IRS have revised 
the rules and examples in proposed §1.6417-2(e) and have added a new example.  
Under these final regulations, there is still a description of steps for an applicable entity 
or electing taxpayer to complete, but there is a change in the ordering of the steps and 
in the calculation of the net elective payment amount.  The net elective payment 
amount, consistent with the proposed regulations, is the amount of an applicable credit 
that is treated as a payment against the tax imposed by subtitle A.  In these final 
regulations, the net elective payment amount is equal to the lesser of (1) the aggregate 
of all applicable credits or (2) the total GBC (including applicable credits) over the total 
GBC allowed against tax liability (determined with regard to section 38(c)).  Under these 
final regulations, an applicable entity or electing taxpayer will calculate the net elective 

payment amount prior to applying the ordering rules of section 38(d).  These revisions 
allow an applicable entity or electing taxpayer that has other non-applicable credit GBCs 
to lower tax liability to the section 38(c) limitation using the non-applicable credit GBCs 
without impact from applicable credits.  But the revisions also require a taxpayer to use 
an applicable credit as a current year GBC to the extent that it is necessary to reduce 
tax liability up to the limitation under section 38(c).  In all other situations, the applicable 
credit will be zero for purposes of section 38 and the applicable credit will be considered 
a payment of tax on the later of the due date of the return or filing (as prescribed by 
section 6417(d)(4)).  
In sum, these revisions to proposed §1.6417-2(e) and the examples ensure two 
outcomes.  First, consistent with commenters’ recommendations, these final regulations 
ensure that taxpayers making an elective payment election will not have to delay using 
non-applicable GBCs because of an applicable credit.  Second, consistent with the 
proposed rule, these final regulations allow a taxpayer to benefit from a reduction in tax 
liability as of the due date of the return by treating an applicable credit as a credit for 
purposes of section 38, up to the section 38(c) limitation.
One commenter urged that the final regulations revise proposed §1.6417-2(e)(3) 
to treat the entire elective payment amount as a payment against tax for purposes of the 
calculations under section 59A of the Code, relating to the tax on base erosion of 
taxpayers with substantial gross receipts (also known as the base erosion anti-abuse 
tax or BEAT), so that the amount (regardless of any portion included in the GBC 
calculation) of a section 45X credit for which an elective payment election is made is 
treated as zero for purposes of section 59A.  In contrast with the analysis earlier for 
section 38, the Treasury Department and the IRS conclude that treatment of an 
applicable credit for purposes of BEAT falls within the portion of section 6417(e) that 
provides, “for any other purposes under this title [26],” the applicable credit is deemed to 

have been allowed to such entity for such taxable year.  In contrast to section 38, BEAT 
is not a provision pursuant to which the applicable credits would be directly claimed, and 
treatment of the elective payment amount as suggested by the commenter would 
conflict with the language in section 6417(e).  Further, since section 6417(e) provides 
that applicable credits are treated as credits for any other purposes of the Code, the 
applicable credits are not analogous to other credits that are considered pre-payments 
of tax and for which the BEAT regulations have an exception.  See §1.59A-5(b)(3)(i)(C) 
(providing that regular tax liability is not reduced for “[a]ny credits allowed under 
sections 33, 37, and 53” of the Code.  Section 33 credits are related to withholding of 
tax at the source with respect to payments to foreign corporations and nonresident 
aliens.  Section 37 is a credit for the overpayment of taxes.  Section 53 relates to a 
credit for alternative minimum tax paid in a prior year).  Thus, these final regulations 
adopt the rule in §1.6417-2(e)(3) as proposed.
Another commenter requested clarification on apparent ambiguities in proposed 
§1.6417-2(e)(2)(ii) and (iii).  As the revisions in these final regulations removed the text 
that the commenter thought was unclear, it is not necessary to address these comments 
in these final regulations.  
Although no commenters specifically raised the application of potential penalties 
under section 6651 in the context of the proposed denial of double benefit rule, these 
final regulations modify §1.6417-2(e)(3) to clarify that a taxpayer may also be subject to 
a penalty under section 6651(a)(2) of the Code relating to the taxpayer’s failure to timely 
pay tax if a return is filed after the original due date.
E. Timing of payment
Section 6417(d)(4) provides that the payment described in section 6417(a) is 
treated as made on (1) in the case of any government, or political subdivision, described 
in section 6417(d)(1) and for which no return is required under section 6011 or 6033(a), 

the later of the date that a return would be due under section 6033(a) if such 
government or subdivision were described in that section or the date on which such 
government or subdivision submits a claim for credit or refund (at such time and in such 
manner as the Secretary provides), and (2) in any other case, the later of the due date 
(determined without regard to extensions) of the return of tax for the taxable year or the 
date on which such return is filed.  Proposed §1.6417-2(d) generally follows the 
statutory provision.  Commenters addressed many aspects of this rule.
1. Processing the Elective Payment
Several commenters asked that the final regulations specify a timeframe within 
which an applicable entity will receive an elective payment amount. These commenters 
stated that having certainty on the time it will take to receive payments is important for 
purposes of securing needed financing or other funding while they are waiting to receive 
their elective payment amounts.  One commenter stated that, if the IRS takes several 
months to process the payments, an organization may default on its loan payment(s).  A 
few commenters speculated that an elective payment amount could be delayed for 
many months after filing, given slow processing times by the IRS.  One commenter 
asked that the IRS impose a process similar to Form 4466, Corporation Application for 
Quick Refund of Overpayment of Estimated Tax, which requires the IRS to process a 
tax refund within 45 days from the date it is filed, for elective payment amounts.  
Another commenter suggested that the final regulations require written notice to 
applicable entities if the IRS will not meet the timeline, with an explanation and a date 
payment can be expected.  Several commenters requested that the time between when 
the payments can be claimed and the time of payment be as short as possible, as 
delays can increase an organization’s costs.
The Treasury Department and the IRS decline to specify a particular time within 
which an elective payment election will be processed.  Several factors, including the 

volume of returns on which elective payment elections are made and whether any 
particular return contains complete and accurate information, will affect processing time.  
However, as the preamble to the proposed and temporary regulations stated, the pre-
filing registration is intended to allow the IRS to verify certain information about a 
taxpayer in a timely manner while mitigating the risk of fraud or improper payments and 
then process the annual tax return with minimal delays.
2. Number of Payments
One commenter asked whether the elective payment amount would be provided 
in one lump sum or in multiple payments.  The statute and these final regulations 
contemplate one return containing the elective payment election, and one payment to 
the taxpayer, per taxable year.  The only exception to this rule is if a taxpayer’s 
superseding or amended return increases the applicable credit amount reflected on the 
original return, as described in part II.B.2 of this Summary of Comments and 
Explanation of Revisions.
3. Accelerated Payments
Several commenters asked that payments be provided to applicable entities 
before the time the statute provides; for example, that applicable entities be allowed to 
submit elective payment elections as soon as qualified energy properties are placed into 
service; that the IRS provide a pre-payment of the tax credit of some percentage (for 
example 20 to 50 percent) based on the “pre-filing record” (and that pre-filing occur at 
the beginning of construction); or that “third-party attestations” or Treasury verification of 
initial pre-filing information could support the distribution of cash refunds at that time 
(which does not preclude the possibility of later audits).  Because section 6417(d)(4) 
provides the date the payment described in section 6417(a) is treated as made on, 
which must occur prior to the IRS providing the payment, the Treasury Department and 
the IRS have determined it is not possible to provide for accelerated payments, 

including in the scenarios advocated by commenters.  Thus, these final regulations do 
not adopt these comments.
4. Payments Against Estimated Tax
In response to several stakeholder responses to Notice 2022-50 asking whether 
an applicable entity could treat an applicable credit arising during a quarter as a 
payment against quarterly estimated tax (assuming such an amount was due), the 
proposed regulations stated that no special rule was needed because taxpayers can 
determine, based on their projected tax liability, the correct amount of estimated tax to 
pay in order to avoid a section 6654 or section 6655 estimated tax penalty at the end of 
the year.
In response to the proposed regulations, multiple commenters continued to 
advocate that applicable credits be able to be used against estimated tax payments or 
stated that the Treasury Department and the IRS should allow for quarterly elections 
and payments even though the elective payment is not deemed to occur until the later 
of the due date or filing date of the applicable tax return.  Some commenters stated that 
allowing properly determined credits to be used against quarterly estimated tax 
payments could more efficiently provide taxpayers with the funds to make and sustain 
investments, that a delay in realizing the value of the credits would increase pressure on 
cash flows and working capital, and that the inability to offset quarterly estimated tax 
liability with an applicable credit is inconsistent with the purpose of section 6417.  
Commenters opined that the Treasury Department and the IRS could allow eligible 
taxpayers to make and receive quarterly elections and payments, align quarterly 
elections with quarterly returns, and replicate the quarterly excise tax reporting 
mechanism similar to rules under sections 6426 and 6427 of the Code, allowing eligible 
entities to claim payments every quarter.  One commenter recommended that 
applicable entities be permitted to include applicable credits within the calculation of 

estimated tax for Form 4466.  Another commenter suggested the Treasury Department 
and the IRS could exercise its authority under section 6655(j) to promulgate regulations 
impacting estimated tax penalties.
The distinction between estimated tax installments (which are the obligation of 
the taxpayer to calculate) versus an end of year estimated tax penalty (that may result if 
the taxpayer’s calculations are not correct and/or if the taxpayer’s annual tax liability is 
not paid on the due date for the return, including a “payment” that is made through an 
elective payment election) appeared to confuse several commenters.  For example, one 
commenter stated that proposed §1.6417-2(e)(3) could be interpreted to permit a 
taxpayer to calculate their estimated tax installments and any underpayment by 
considering properly determined refundable credits in making quarterly estimated tax 
payments, even though the elective payment amount is not deemed to be made until 
the later of the due date or filing date of the applicable tax return.
Some commenters asked for clarifications to proposed §1.6417-2(e)(4), Example 
5, which describes a situation in which an electing taxpayer filed its tax return on a 
timely filed extension after the due date of the return (without extensions).  Example 5 in 
the proposed regulations would have provided: 
“[e]ven though W did not owe tax after applying the net elective payment 
amount against its net tax liability, W may be subject to the section 6655 
penalty for failure to pay estimated income tax. The net elective payment 
is not an estimated tax installment, rather, it is treated as a payment made 
at the filing of the return.”
Commenters asked that the applicable credits be considered to have been 
estimated tax payments, resulting in no tax liability at the end of the year or, at a 
minimum, that final regulations waive estimated tax penalties related to an elective 
payment election.  In other words, commenters requested that the elective payment 
election amount may be applied both as a reduction to any quarterly estimated tax 
payments (without penalty) and to offset any taxes that are reported on the taxpayer’s 

income tax return for any taxable year in which those elections are in effect.
These final regulations do not adopt these suggestions.  Section 6417(d)(4) 
generally requires a single payment and clearly states the timing of when the payment 
is treated as made, which is, at the earliest, the return due date (determined without 
regard to extensions).  In that sense, payments made under section 6417 are no 
different than other kinds of payments a taxpayer may make as part of filing a timely 
return (excluding extensions) or making a payment with a timely filed application for 
extension.  Taxpayers can adequately determine whether their quarterly estimated 
payments are sufficient to avoid estimated income tax penalties based on their 
projected income and by considering any expected, properly determined applicable 
credit.  For the same reasons, applicable credits may not be included to calculate 
estimated tax for Form 4466, which, under section 6425(a)(1) of the Code must be filed 
after the close of a corporation’s taxable year, on or before the 15th day of the fourth 
month following the close of such taxable year, and prior to the filing of the corporation’s 
return for such taxable year.  Comments requesting the promulgation of regulations 
under section 6655 are outside the scope of these final regulations.  For the sake of 
clarity, however, these final regulations modify Example 5 under §1.6417-2(e)(4) to 
better reflect the conclusion that a taxpayer that files its return after the due date for 
filing (excluding extensions) may also be subject to a penalty under section 6651(a)(2) 
for the failure to timely pay tax, even if it did not owe tax after applying the net elective 
payment amount against its net tax liability.
Some commenters requested clarification on whether the elective payment 
amount under section 6417(a) is subject to the same treatment as estimated payments 
against income taxes under §301.6402-4; as a refund other than estimated taxes; as a 
refundable tax credit; or as some other form of special payment.  Commenters also 
stated that, if the elective payment amount is treated as a refund, the final regulations 

